{
 "en": {
    "description": "Vitamin E is a fat-soluble antioxidant that plays a crucial role in protecting cells from oxidative stress and damage. It is essential for immune function, skin health, and the maintenance of healthy blood vessels. Vitamin E exists in various forms, with alpha-tocopherol being the most active in humans. It can be obtained through dietary sources such as nuts, seeds, green leafy vegetables, and vegetable oils, or through supplements. Overall, Vitamin E is important for overall health and well-being.",
    "benefits": [
      "Acts as a powerful antioxidant, protecting cells from damage.",
      "Supports immune function and helps the body fight off infections.",
      "Promotes healthy skin and may reduce skin aging.",
      "Improves blood circulation and cardiovascular health.",
      "May help in the prevention of chronic diseases such as heart disease and certain cancers."
    ],
    "side effects": [
      "Nausea",
      "Diarrhea",
      "Fatigue",
      "Headache",
      "Blurred vision",
      "Increased risk of bleeding, especially at high doses"
    ]
 },
 "fa": {
     "description": "ویتامین E یک آنتی‌اکسیدان محلول در چربی است که نقش مهمی در محافظت از سلول‌ها در برابر استرس و آسیب اکسیداتیو ایفا می‌کند. این ویتامین برای عملکرد سیستم ایمنی، سلامت پوست و حفظ عروق خونی سالم ضروری است. ویتامین E در اشکال مختلفی وجود دارد که آلفا-توکوفرول فعال‌ترین شکل آن در انسان‌ها می‌باشد. این ویتامین را می‌توان از منابع غذایی مانند آجیل‌ها، دانه‌ها، سبزیجات ورق دار و روغن‌های گیاهی دریافت کرد یا از مکمل‌ها استفاده کرد. در کل، ویتامین E برای سلامت عمومی و رفاه مهم است.",
     "benefits": [
       "عملکرد به عنوان یک آنتی‌اکسیدان قوی، محافظت از سلول‌ها در برابر آسیب.",
       "حمایت از عملکرد سیستم ایمنی و کمک به مبارزه با عفونت‌ها.",
       "ترویج سلامت پوست و ممکن است پیری پوست را کاهش دهد.",
       "بهبود گردش خون و سلامت قلب و عروق.",
       "ممکن است در پیشگیری از بیماری‌های مزمن مانند بیماری قلبی و برخی سرطان‌ها کمک کند."
     ],
     "side effects": [
       "تهوع",
       "اسهال",
       "خستگی",
       "سردرد",
       "کاهش دید",
       "افزایش خطر خونریزی، به ویژه در دوزهای بالا"
     ]
 }
}