{
  "en": {
    "description": "An aortic aneurysm is a bulge or dilation in a section of the aorta, the largest artery in the body, which carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body. This condition often develops silently over many years and can lead to serious complications if left untreated, including rupture or dissection of the aorta, which can be life-threatening. Risk factors include age, high blood pressure, cholesterol, and a history of smoking or connective tissue disorders.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Pain in the chest or back: Patients may experience a sudden, severe pain in the chest, abdomen, or back that can be sharp and persistent.",
      "Pulsating feeling near the navel: Some individuals may sense a pulsating sensation in the abdomen, which can indicate the presence of an aneurysm.",
      "Shortness of breath: In cases where the aneurysm is pressing on the lungs or heart, patients might experience difficulty breathing.",
      "Dizziness or fainting: Sudden drops in blood pressure or blood loss from a ruptured aneurysm can lead to dizziness or fainting.",
      "Rapid heartbeat: The body may respond to internal bleeding with an increase in heart rate as a compensatory mechanism."
    ],
    "treatments": "The treatment for an aortic aneurysm depends on its size and growth rate. Small aneurysms (less than 5.5 cm) may be monitored with regular imaging studies and managed with lifestyle changes and blood pressure medications. Larger or symptomatic aneurysms typically require surgical intervention, which can be performed either through open surgery to remove the aneurysm and replace it with a graft or through minimally invasive endovascular surgery using a stent graft. Post-surgery, patients need lifelong follow-up care to monitor for any complications or recurrence."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "آنوریسم آئورتی یک برآمدگی یا انبساط در بخشی از آئورت است که بزرگترین شریان بدن محسوب می‌شود و خون را از قلب به بقیه بدن منتقل می‌کند. این وضعیت اغلب به آرامی و در طول سال‌ها ایجاد می‌شود و در صورت عدم درمان می‌تواند به عوارض جدی مانند پارگی یا جدایی آئورت منجر شود که می‌تواند تهدیدکننده زندگی باشد. عوامل خطر شامل سن، فشار خون بالا، کلسترول و سابقه سیگار کشیدن یا اختلالات بافت همبند هستند.",
    "symptoms": [
      "درد در قفسه سینه یا پشت: بیماران ممکن است درد شدید و ناگهانی در قفسه سینه، شکم یا پشت را تجربه کنند که می‌تواند تیز و مداوم باشد.",
      "احساس تپش در ناحیه ناف: برخی از افراد ممکن است حسی تپش در شکم را احساس کنند که می‌تواند نشاندهنده وجود آنوریسم باشد.",
      "تنگی نفس: در مواردی که آنوریسم به ریه‌ها یا قلب فشار می‌آورد، بیماران ممکن است با مشکل تنفس مواجه شوند.",
      "سرگیجه یا غش: کاهش ناگهانی فشار خون یا خونریزی داخلی ناشی از پارگی آنوریسم می‌تواند منجر به سرگیجه یا غش شود.",
      "ضربان قلب سریع: بدن ممکن است به خونریزی داخلی با افزایش ضربان قلب به عنوان یک مکانیزم جبرانی پاسخ دهد."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان آنوریسم آئورتی بستگی به اندازه و نرخ رشد آن دارد. آنوریسم‌های کوچک (کمتر از 5.5 سانتی‌متر) ممکن است با مطالعات تصویربرداری منظم زیر نظر باشند و با تغییرات سبک زندگی و داروهای فشار خون مدیریت شوند. آنوریسم‌های بزرگتر یا علامت‌دار معمولاً نیاز به مداخله جراحی دارند که می‌تواند از طریق جراحی باز برای برداشتن آنوریسم و ​​جایگزینی آن با یک گرافت یا از طریق جراحی عروقی حداقل تهاجمی با استفاده از یک گرافت استنت انجام شود. پس از جراحی، بیماران نیاز به مراقبت‌های پیگیری مادام‌العمر برای نظارت بر هر گونه عوارض یا عود دارند."
  }
}