{
  "en": {
    "description": "Atrial Fibrillation (AF) is a common heart rhythm disorder characterized by rapid and irregular beating of the atria, the upper chambers of the heart. This condition can lead to various complications, including stroke and heart failure, if left untreated. AF can occur in episodes or be chronic, and it may be triggered by factors such as heart disease, high blood pressure, or excessive alcohol consumption.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Palpitations: A sensation of rapid, fluttering, or pounding heartbeat that may be irregular.",
      "Shortness of breath: Difficulty catching one’s breath, especially during physical activity or at rest.",
      "Fatigue: An unusual level of tiredness or weakness that can affect daily activities.",
      "Dizziness or lightheadedness: A feeling of being faint or unsteady, sometimes leading to fainting.",
      "Chest pain: Discomfort or pain in the chest, which may signify underlying heart issues."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for atrial fibrillation may involve a combination of lifestyle changes, medications, and medical procedures. Medications are often prescribed to regulate heart rate or rhythm and to prevent blood clots, which can lead to stroke. Anticoagulants such as warfarin or newer agents like apixaban may be used for this purpose. For some patients, rate or rhythm control can be achieved through antiarrhythmic drugs. In more severe cases, procedures like electrical cardioversion, catheter ablation, or the implantation of a pacemaker may be warranted to restore a normal heart rhythm or to control heart rate. Lifestyle changes, including regular exercise, a heart-healthy diet, and avoidance of stimulants, can also improve heart health and reduce AF episodes."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی (AF) یکی از اختلالات شایع ریتم قلبی است که با ضربان سریع و نامنظم دهلیزها، که اتاق‌های فوقانی قلب هستند، شناخته می‌شود. این وضعیت می‌تواند به عوارض مختلفی از جمله سکته مغزی و نارسایی قلبی منجر شود اگر درمان نشود. فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی می‌تواند در اپیزودها رخ دهد یا به طور مزمن باشد و ممکن است توسط عواملی همچون بیماری قلبی، فشار خون بالا یا مصرف زیاد الکل تحریک شود.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تپش قلب: احساس ضربان سریع، لرزنده یا کوبنده که ممکن است نامنظم باشد.",
      "تنگی نفس: سختی در تنفس، به ویژه در حین فعالیت بدنی یا در حالت استراحت.",
      "خستگی: سطح غیرعادی از خستگی یا ضعف که می‌تواند بر فعالیت‌های روزانه تأثیر بگذارد.",
      "سرگیجه یا سبکی سر: احساسی از بی حالی یا ناپایداری که گاهی منجر به غش می‌شود.",
      "درد قفسه سینه: ناراحتی یا درد در قفسه سینه که ممکن است نشان‌دهنده مشکلات زیربنایی قلب باشد."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی ممکن است شامل ترکیبی از تغییرات سبک زندگی، داروها و روش‌های پزشکی باشد. معمولاً داروهایی برای تنظیم ضربان قلب یا ریتم و جلوگیری از لخته‌های خون که می‌توانند منجر به سکته مغزی شوند، تجویز می‌شوند. داروهای رقیق‌کننده خون مانند وارفارین یا عوامل جدیدتر مانند اپیگابان برای این منظور استفاده می‌شوند. برای برخی از بیماران، کنترل ضربان یا ریتم می‌تواند از طریق داروهای ضد آریتمی حاصل شود. در موارد شدیدتر، روش‌هایی مانند کاردیوورژن الکتریکی، ابلیشن کاتتر یا کاشت ضربان‌ساز ممکن است، جهت بازگرداندن ریتم طبیعی قلب یا کنترل ضربان قلب ضروری باشد. تغییرات سبک زندگی، از جمله ورزش منظم، رژیم غذایی سالم برای قلب و اجتناب از محرک‌ها می‌تواند به بهبود سلامت قلب و کاهش اپیزودهای AF کمک کند."
  }
}