```json
{
  "en": {
    "description": "Cardiomyopathy is a group of diseases that affect the heart muscle, leading to structural and functional abnormalities. This condition can make it harder for the heart to pump blood and can lead to heart failure and other complications. There are several types of cardiomyopathy, including dilated, hypertrophic, and restrictive, each with distinct causes and effects on heart function. It can be caused by genetic factors, prior heart attacks, high blood pressure, or exposure to certain toxins.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Shortness of breath: Difficulty in breathing during exertion or even at rest.",
      "Fatigue: Unusual tiredness and a lack of energy, often worsening with activity.",
      "Swelling: Fluid accumulation in the legs, ankles, or abdomen due to poor circulation.",
      "Irregular heartbeats: Experiencing a rapid, fluttering, or pounding heartbeat.",
      "Chest pain: Discomfort or tightness in the chest, sometimes associated with exertion."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for cardiomyopathy focuses on relieving symptoms, managing complications, and improving heart function. Options include: \n1. Medications: These may include ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers, diuretics, and anticoagulants to help relax the blood vessels, reduce workload on the heart, and prevent blood clots.\n2. Lifestyle changes: Adopting a heart-healthy diet, regular exercise, and quitting smoking can improve overall heart health.\n3. Devices: In certain cases, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) or pacemakers may be suggested to help manage abnormal heart rhythms.\n4. Surgery: For severe cases, procedures such as septal myectomy, which removes a portion of the heart muscle, or heart transplantation may be options."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "کاردیومیوپاتی گروهی از بیماری‌ها است که بر روی عضله قلب تأثیر می‌گذارد و منجر به ناهنجاری‌های ساختاری و عملکردی می‌شود. این وضعیت می‌تواند پمپاژ خون توسط قلب را دشوار کند و منجر به نارسایی قلبی و سایر عوارض گردد. انواع مختلفی از کاردیومیوپاتی وجود دارد، از جمله کاردیومیوپاتی دیلاته، هایپرتروفیک وRestrictiveکه هر کدام علل و تأثیرات خاص خود بر عملکرد قلب دارند. این بیماری می‌تواند ناشی از عوامل ژنتیکی، حمله‌های قلبی قبلی، فشار خون بالا یا قرار گرفتن در معرض برخی سموم باشد.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تنگی نفس: دشواری در نفس‌کشیدن هنگام فعالیت یا حتی در زمان استراحت.",
      "خستگی: احساس خستگی غیرمعمول و کمبود انرژی، که معمولاً با فعالیت بدتر می‌شود.",
      "تورم: تجمع مایع در پاها، مچ پاها یا شکم به دلیل گردش خون ضعیف.",
      "ضربان نامنظم قلب: تجربه یک ضربان سریع، لرزان یا کوبنده.",
      "درد قفسه سینه: ناراحتی یا تنگی در قفسه سینه، گاهی اوقات با فعالیت همراه است."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان کاردیومیوپاتی بر روی کاهش علائم، مدیریت عوارض و بهبود عملکرد قلب تمرکز دارد. گزینه‌ها شامل:\n1. داروها: اینها ممکن است شامل مهارکننده‌های ACE، بتابلاکرها، دیورتیک‌ها و داروهای رقیق‌کننده خون باشد تا به گشادی رگ‌های خونی و کاهش بار کاری قلب کمک کنند.\n2. تغییرات سبک زندگی: اتخاذ یک رژیم غذایی سالم برای قلب، ورزش منظم و ترک سیگار می‌تواند به بهبود سلامت کلی قلب کمک کند.\n3. دستگاه‌ها: در برخی موارد، ممکن است استفاده از دستگاه‌های قلبی کاشتنی (ICDs) یا ضربان‌سازها به منظور مدیریت ریتم‌های نامنظم قلب پیشنهاد شود.\n4. جراحی: برای موارد شدید، روش‌هایی مانند میکتومی سپتوم، که بخشی از عضله قلب را برمی‌دارد، یا پیوند قلب ممکن است گزینه‌هایی باشند."
  }
}
```