{
  "en": {
    "description": "Coarctation of the aorta is a congenital condition characterized by the narrowing of the aorta, the large blood vessel that carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the rest of the body. This narrowing can occur anywhere along the aorta but is most commonly found just after the blood vessels that branch off to the arms and head. As a result, it can lead to high blood pressure in the upper body and low blood pressure in the lower body, potentially causing serious complications if left untreated.",
    "symptoms": [
      "High blood pressure in the arms: Individuals may experience significantly elevated blood pressure readings in the upper body, often during routine check-ups.",
      "Low blood pressure in the legs: There can be a marked difference in blood pressure readings between the arms and legs, with readings in the legs being considerably lower.",
      "Cold feet or legs: The narrowing can reduce blood flow to the lower extremities, resulting in temperature differences, such as coldness in the legs and feet.",
      "Heart murmurs: A physician may detect abnormal heart sounds due to turbulent blood flow caused by the narrowing of the aorta.",
      "Chest pain: Some patients may experience chest discomfort or pain, particularly during activities that increase the heart's demand for oxygen.",
      "Shortness of breath: Patients may feel breathless, especially during exertion, as the heart struggles to pump blood effectively."
    ],
    "treatments": "The standard treatment for coarctation of the aorta is surgical intervention. Surgery can involve resection of the narrowed segment of the aorta with end-to-end anastomosis, where the two ends are sewn together, or placing a bypass graft. In some cases, balloon angioplasty can be done, where a catheter with a balloon is used to dilate the narrow section. After treatment, patients may require lifelong monitoring to manage blood pressure and assess for potential re-coarctation. Medication may also be prescribed to control high blood pressure, and lifestyle changes such as diet and exercise modifications can be recommended to maintain heart health."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "تنگی آئورت یک بیماری مادرزادی است که در آن آئورت، بزرگترین رگ خونی که خون غنی از اکسیژن را از قلب به بقیه بدن می‌رساند، باریک می‌شود. این باریک‌شدگی می‌تواند در هر نقطه از آئورت رخ دهد اما بیشتر در ناحیه‌ای که رگ‌های خونی به دست‌ها و سر منشأ می‌گیرند، یافت می‌شود. نتیجه این وضعیت، فشار خون بالا در قسمت بالای بدن و فشار خون پایین در قسمت پایین بدن است که اگر درمان نشود، می‌تواند عواقب جدی به همراه داشته باشد.",
    "symptoms": [
      "فشار خون بالا در بازوها: افراد ممکن است در معاینات روتین، قرائت‌های فشار خون بالایی در قسمت بالای بدن خود تجربه کنند.",
      "فشار خون پایین در پاها: ممکن است تفاوت قابل توجهی در اندازه‌گیری‌های فشار خون بین بازوها و پاها وجود داشته باشد.",
      "پای سرد یا پاها: باریک شدن آئورت می‌تواند خون‌رسانی به اندام‌های تحتانی را کاهش دهد که منجر به سرما در پاها و پاها می‌شود.",
      "صدای غیرطبیعی قلب: پزشک ممکن است صدای غیرمعمول قلب را به‌دلیل جریان خون آشفته ناشی از باریک شدن آئورت تشخیص دهد.",
      "درد قفسه سینه: برخی بیماران ممکن است در حین فعالیت‌هایی که نیاز قلب به اکسیژن را افزایش می‌دهد، دچار ناراحتی یا درد قفسه سینه شوند.",
      "تنگی نفس: بیماران ممکن است به‌ویژه در حین تلاش، احساس تنگی نفس کنند زیرا قلب برای پمپاژ موثر خون با مشکل مواجه می‌شود."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان استاندارد برای تنگی آئورت، مداخله جراحی است. جراحی می‌تواند شامل بریدن بخش باریک آئورت و پیوند انتها به انتهای آن باشد، جایی که دو انتها به هم دوخته می‌شوند، یا قرار دادن پیوند. در برخی موارد، بالون آنژیوپلاستی انجام می‌شود که در آن یک کاتتر با بالون برای گشاد کردن بخش باریک استفاده می‌شود. بعد از درمان، بیماران ممکن است نیاز به نظارت دائمی برای کنترل فشار خون و ارزیابی احتمالی دوباره باریک شدن داشته باشند. ممکن است داروهایی برای کنترل فشار خون بالا تجویز شود و تغییرات سبک زندگی مانند اصلاحات رژیم غذایی و تمرینات ورزشی نیز برای حفظ سلامت قلب توصیه شود."
  }
}