{
  "en": {
    "description": "Eisenmenger Syndrome is a complex, serious condition that arises as a long-term consequence of congenital heart defects that lead to abnormal blood flow. This unique syndrome occurs when a left-to-right shunt in a heart defect causes increased blood flow to the lungs, leading to pulmonary hypertension. Over time, the pressure in the pulmonary artery rises, resulting in a reversal of blood flow through the heart and causing deoxygenated blood to enter systemic circulation, which can lead to serious complications, including heart failure, arrhythmias, and a decreased quality of life.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Shortness of breath: Patients often experience difficulty breathing, particularly during physical activity, as a result of reduced oxygen delivery to the body.",
      "Cyanosis: A bluish discoloration of the skin, lips, and nails occurs due to low oxygen levels in the blood.",
      "Fatigue: Individuals may feel unusually tired and lack energy due to the decreased oxygen supply.",
      "Palpitations: Patients may experience irregular heartbeats or a feeling of rapid heart rate.",
      "Chest pain: Some may experience pain or discomfort in the chest due to strain on the heart and increased pressure.",
      "Swelling: Fluid retention can lead to swelling in the legs, ankles, and abdomen due to heart complications."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for Eisenmenger Syndrome is complex and requires a multidisciplinary approach. It often includes medications such as vasodilators to manage pulmonary hypertension, oxygen therapy to improve oxygenation, and diuretics to reduce fluid overload. In some cases, anticoagulants may be prescribed to prevent blood clots. Surgical options may be considered for select cases, including heart-lung transplantation, especially when conservative treatments fail to manage symptoms effectively. Regular follow-up with a specialized cardiologist is essential to monitor progression and adjust treatment protocols as necessary."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "سندرم آیزنمنگر یک وضعیت پیچیده و جدی است که به عنوان یک عارضه بلندمدت از نقص‌های مادرزادی قلبی که به جریان غیرطبیعی خون منجر می‌شوند، بروز می‌کند. این سندرم به دلیل وجود یک شنت از چپ به راست در یک نقص قلبی، باعث افزایش جریان خون به ریه‌ها و در پی آن فشار خون ریوی می‌شود. با گذشت زمان، فشار در شریان ریوی افزایش می‌یابد و منجر به معکوس شدن جریان خون از طریق قلب می‌شود، که باعث ورود خون غیرقابل اکسیژن به گردش خون سیستمیک می‌شود و ممکن است منجر به عوارض جدی، از جمله نارسایی قلبی، آریتمی‌ها و کاهش کیفیت زندگی گردد.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تنگی نفس: بیماران معمولاً احساس دشواری در تنفس دارند، به خصوص در حین فعالیت بدنی، به دلیل کاهش تأمین اکسیژن به بدن.",
      "سیانوز: تغییر رنگ پوست، لب‌ها و ناخن‌ها به رنگ آبی به دلیل سطح پایین اکسیژن در خون مشاهده می‌شود.",
      "خستگی: افراد ممکن است احساس خستگی غیرعادی و کمبود انرژی داشته باشند به علت تأمین ناکافی اکسیژن.",
      "تپش قلب: بیماران ممکن است ضربانات نامنظم قلب یا احساس ضربان سریع را تجربه کنند.",
      "درد قفسه سینه: بعضی ممکن است درد یا ناراحتی در ناحیه قفسه سینه حس کنند که به دلیل فشار بر قلب و افزایش فشار است.",
      "تورم: احتباس مایع می‌تواند منجر به تورم در پاها، مچ پاها و شکم به دلیل عوارض قلبی شود."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان برای سندرم آیزنمنگر پیچیده است و نیاز به یک رویکرد چند رشته‌ای دارد. این درمان معمولاً شامل داروهایی مانند بازکننده‌های عروق برای مدیریت فشار خون ریوی، درمان با اکسیژن برای بهبود اکسیژن‌رسانی و دیورتیک‌ها برای کاهش بار مایع است. در برخی موارد، داروهای رقیق‌کننده خون ممکن است برای جلوگیری از لخته شدن خون تجویز شوند. گزینه‌های جراحی ممکن است برای موارد خاص مورد توجه قرار گیرد، از جمله پیوند قلب و ریه، به ویژه هنگامی که درمان‌های محافظه‌کارانه نتوانند به طور مؤثر علائم را مدیریت کنند. پیگیری منظم با یک متخصص قلب نیاز است تا پیشرفت بیماری را تحت نظر داشته و پروتکل‌های درمانی را مطابق با نیازها تنظیم کند."
  }
}