{
  "en": {
    "description": "Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a genetic heart condition characterized by abnormal thickening of the heart muscle, particularly the ventricles. This often leads to obstructed blood flow, arrhythmias, and can be a significant cause of sudden cardiac arrest, especially in young athletes. HCM can range from mild to severe and may not always produce noticeable symptoms, but the condition can greatly affect heart function and overall health.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Shortness of breath - Patients may experience difficulty breathing, particularly during physical exertion or exercise.",
      "Chest pain - This can occur, especially during activities that put extra strain on the heart.",
      "Fatigue - A general sense of tiredness that is disproportionate to activity levels.",
      "Palpitations - Irregular heartbeats or sensations of a racing or pounding heart, often linked to arrhythmias.",
      "Dizziness or fainting - These symptoms can be due to reduced blood flow to the brain, particularly during exertion."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy may include lifestyle changes, medications, and in some cases, surgical options. Lifestyle adjustments can involve avoiding vigorous exercise and managing stress. Medications such as beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers may help to reduce symptoms and improve heart function. In severe cases, procedures such as septal myectomy (surgical removal of part of the thickened heart muscle) or alcohol septal ablation (using alcohol to destroy part of the thickened muscle) may be considered. Additionally, regular monitoring and evaluations by a cardiologist are essential to manage the condition effectively."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "کاردیومیوپاتی هیپرتروفیک (HCM) یک بیماری قلبی ژنتیکی است که با ضخیم شدن غیرطبیعی عضله قلب، به ویژه بطن‌ها، مشخص می‌شود. این معمولاً منجر به انسداد جریان خون، آریتمی‌ها و ممکن است باعث ایست قلبی ناگهانی، به ویژه در ورزشکاران جوان شود. HCM می‌تواند از خفیف تا شدید متغیر باشد و ممکن است همیشه نشانه‌های قابل توجهی تولید نکند، اما این وضعیت می‌تواند عملکرد قلب و سلامت کلی را به شدت تحت تأثیر قرار دهد.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تنگی نفس - بیماران ممکن است در هنگام فعالیت بدنی یا ورزش دچار مشکل تنفس شوند.",
      "درد قفسه سینه - این می‌تواند به ویژه در حین فعالیت‌هایی که فشار اضافی به قلب وارد می‌کند، رخ دهد.",
      "خستگی - احساس عمومی خستگی که با سطح فعالیت ناهماهنگ است.",
      "تپش قلب - ضربان‌های نامنظم یا حس تپش یا طپش شدید قلب، که غالباً به آریتمی‌ها مربوط می‌شود.",
      "سرگیجه یا غش - این علائم می‌تواند به دلیل کاهش جریان خون به مغز، به ویژه در حین ورزش، باشد."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان کاردیومیوپاتی هیپرتروفیک ممکن است شامل تغییرات در سبک زندگی، داروها و در برخی موارد، گزینه‌های جراحی باشد. تنظیمات سبک زندگی می‌تواند شامل اجتناب از ورزش‌های شدید و مدیریت استرس باشد. داروهایی مانند بتا-بلاکرها یا مسدودکننده‌های کانال کلسیم می‌توانند به کاهش علائم و بهبود عملکرد قلب کمک کنند. در موارد شدید، روش‌هایی مانند میوتومی سپتوم (حذف جراحی بخشی از عضله ضخیم شده قلب) یا ابلییشن سپتالی الکل (استفاده از الکل برای از بین بردن بخشی از عضله ضخیم شده) ممکن است مد نظر قرار گیرد. علاوه بر این، نظارت منظم و ارزیابی‌های یک متخصص قلب برای مدیریت مؤثر این حالت ضروری است."
  }
}