{
  "en": {
    "description": "Mitral Valve Prolapse (MVP) is a condition in which the mitral valve, located between the left atrium and left ventricle of the heart, does not close properly during heart contraction. This can cause blood to leak backward into the atrium, a condition known as mitral regurgitation. MVP is often asymptomatic and can be diagnosed through auscultation of a characteristic heart murmur or through echocardiography. In some cases, it may be associated with other conditions such as connective tissue disorders.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Palpitations: Many people with MVP experience irregular heartbeats or palpitations, which may feel like a fluttering or racing in the chest.",
      "Chest Pain: Some patients may experience chest pain that is usually not related to any underlying heart disease and can vary in intensity.",
      "Fatigue: Chronic fatigue or tiredness can occur, often linked to the emotional stress and anxiety that can accompany MVP.",
      "Shortness of Breath: Patients may have sudden episodes of shortness of breath, especially during physical activity or when lying down.",
      "Dizziness or Lightheadedness: Some individuals may feel dizzy or lightheaded, especially when standing suddenly."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for Mitral Valve Prolapse primarily focuses on managing symptoms and preventing complications. In asymptomatic cases, no treatment is necessary, although regular monitoring with a healthcare provider is advised. For those experiencing significant symptoms, beta-blockers may be prescribed to help control palpitations and reduce anxiety. If mitral regurgitation becomes severe, surgical options may be considered, such as mitral valve repair or replacement. Lifestyle modifications like regular exercise and reducing caffeine intake can also help manage symptoms. Regular follow-ups with a cardiologist are essential to monitor the condition's progression."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "پرولاپس دریچه میترال (MVP) وضعیتی است که در آن دریچه میترال که بین دهلیز چپ و بطن چپ قلب قرار دارد، به درستی در حین انقباض قلب بسته نمی‌شود. این می‌تواند باعث نشت خون به عقب به سمت دهلیز شود که به آن نارسایی دریچه میترال گفته می‌شود. MVP اغلب بدون علامت است و می‌تواند از طریق شنیدن صدای خاصی از قلب یا از طریق اکوکاردیوگرافی تشخیص داده شود. در برخی موارد، ممکن است با سایر شرایط مانند اختلالات بافت همبند همراه باشد.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تپش قلب: بسیاری از افراد مبتلا به MVP تپش‌های نامنظم یا تپش قلب را تجربه می‌کنند که ممکن است به صورت لرزش یا شتاب در سینه احساس شود.",
      "درد قفسه سینه: بعضی از بیماران ممکن است درد قفسه سینه را تجربه کنند که معمولاً به بیماری زمینه‌ای قلبی مرتبط نیست و می‌تواند در شدت متفاوت باشد.",
      "خستگی: خستگی یا بی‌حوصلگی مزمن ممکن است اتفاق بیفتد که اغلب با استرس عاطفی و اضطراب که ممکن است در پی MVP به وجود آید، مرتبط است.",
      "تنگی نفس: بیماران ممکن است در طول فعالیت بدنی یا زمانی که دراز کشیده‌اند، دچار حملات ناگهانی تنگی نفس شوند.",
      "سرگیجه یا احساس سبکی سر: برخی افراد ممکن است احساس سرگیجه یا سبکی سر کنند، به ویژه زمانی که ناگهانی ایستاده می‌شوند."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان پرولاپس دریچه میترال عمدتاً بر مدیریت علائم و جلوگیری از عوارض متمرکز است. در موارد بدون علامت، درمان خاصی ضروری نیست، اگرچه نظارت منظم با یک ارائه‌دهنده سلامت توصیه می‌شود. برای کسانی که علائم قابل توجهی را تجربه می‌کنند، ممکن است بتا بلاکرها برای کنترل تپش قلب و کاهش اضطراب تجویز شود. اگر نارسایی دریچه میترال شدید شود، گزینه‌های جراحی ممکن است در نظر گرفته شوند، مانند ترمیم یا تعویض دریچه میترال. تغییرات در سبک زندگی مانند ورزش منظم و کاهش مصرف کافئین نیز می‌تواند به مدیریت علائم کمک کند. پیگیری‌های منظم با یک متخصص قلب برای نظارت بر پیشرفت وضعیت بسیار مهم است."
  }
}