{
  "en": {
    "description": "Myocarditis is an inflammatory condition of the heart muscle (myocardium), often triggered by viral infections, autoimmune diseases, or exposure to certain toxins. This inflammation can weaken the heart and its ability to pump blood, leading to various complications, including heart failure. Symptoms can range from mild to severe and may develop suddenly or over time, making early diagnosis essential for effective management.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Chest pain: Patients may experience sharp or pressure-like pain in the chest.",
      "Fatigue: A general feeling of tiredness or exhaustion, especially during physical activity.",
      "Shortness of breath: Difficulty breathing, particularly during exertion or while lying down.",
      "Arrhythmias: Irregular heartbeats that may feel like a racing, fluttering, or pounding sensation in the chest.",
      "Swelling: Edema in the legs, ankles, or feet due to fluid retention.",
      "Fever: Often mild, but may occur as part of an underlying viral infection.",
      "Palpitations: An awareness of the heartbeat, which may feel fast or irregular."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for myocarditis primarily focuses on managing symptoms and underlying causes. Patients may be advised to rest and limit physical activity to reduce the heart's workload. In acute cases, medications such as anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., NSAIDs or corticosteroids) may be prescribed to reduce inflammation. If the underlying cause is viral, antivirals may be utilized. For patients experiencing heart failure symptoms, diuretics can help reduce fluid overload, while beta-blockers may be used to improve heart rhythm and function. In severe cases where heart function is significantly compromised, advanced therapies such as intravenous medications, mechanical support devices, or even heart transplant may be considered."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "میوکاردیت یک وضعیت التهابی در عضله قلب (میوکارد) است که اغلب به علت عفونت‌های ویروسی، بیماری‌های خودایمنی یا قرارگیری در معرض سموم خاص ایجاد می‌شود. این التهاب می‌تواند قلب را ضعیف کرده و توانایی آن برای پمپاژ خون را کاهش دهد که منجر به عوارض مختلفی از جمله نارسایی قلبی می‌شود. علائم می‌توانند از خفیف تا شدید متغیر باشند و ممکن است ناگهان یا به مرور زمان توسعه یابند، بنابراین تشخیص به موقع برای مدیریت مؤثر آن ضروری است.",
    "symptoms": [
      "درد قفسه سینه: بیماران ممکن است درد تیری یا فشاری در قفسه سینه را تجربه کنند.",
      "خستگی: احساس عمومی خستگی یا بی‌حالی، به ویژه در حین فعالیت بدنی.",
      "تنگی نفس: دشواری در تنفس، به ویژه در حین فعالیت یا در حالت دراز کش.",
      "آریتمی: ضربان‌های نامنظم قلب که ممکن است مانند تپش، لرزش یا حس پرچم در قفسه سینه احساس شود.",
      "تورم: ادم در پاها، مچ‌ها یا کف پا به دلیل احتباس مایعات.",
      "تب: معمولاً خفیف، اما ممکن است به عنوان بخشی از یک عفونت ویروسی زیرین رخ دهد.",
      "تپش قلب: آگاهی از ضربان قلب که ممکن است سریع یا نامنظم به نظر برسد."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان میوکاردیت عمدتاً بر مدیریت علائم و علل زیرین تمرکز دارد. به بیماران ممکن است توصیه شود که استراحت کنند و فعالیت بدنی را محدود کنند تا بار کاری قلب کاهش یابد. در موارد حاد، ممکن است داروهایی مانند داروهای ضد التهاب (مانند NSAIDs یا کورتیکواستروئیدها) تجویز شود تا التهاب کاهش یابد. اگر علت زیرین ویروسی باشد، ممکن است از داروهای ضدویروسی استفاده شود. برای بیمارانی که علائم نارسایی قلبی را تجربه می‌کنند، دیورتیک‌ها می‌توانند به کاهش بار مایعات کمک کنند، در حالی که بتا بلاکرها ممکن است برای بهبود ریتم و عملکرد قلب استفاده شوند. در موارد شدید که عملکرد قلب به طور قابل توجهی مختل شده است، درمان‌های پیشرفته مانند داروهای داخل وریدی، دستگاه‌های پشتیبانی مکانیکی یا حتی پیوند قلب در نظر گرفته می‌شود."
  }
}