{
  "en": {
    "description": "Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a serious condition that occurs when a blood clot, often originating from the deep veins of the legs, travels to the lungs and obstructs a pulmonary artery or its branches. This blockage can lead to decreased blood flow, reduced oxygen supply to the lung tissue, and can cause significant respiratory distress and even death if not treated promptly. Risk factors include prolonged immobility, surgery, certain medical conditions, and a history of venous thromboembolism.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Shortness of breath: A sudden and unexplained difficulty in breathing, which may worsen with exertion.",
      "Chest pain: Often sharp and may feel worse when taking deep breaths, coughing, or bending over.",
      "Cough: A persistent cough that may produce blood-streaked sputum.",
      "Rapid heart rate: An increased heart rate (tachycardia) that may occur as a response to decreased oxygen levels.",
      "Leg swelling: Symptoms may also be present in the legs, including swelling, pain, and warmth, typically indicative of a deep vein thrombosis."
    ],
    "treatments": "The primary treatments for pulmonary embolism include anticoagulant medications, which help prevent further clotting and allow the body to gradually dissolve the existing clot. Common anticoagulants include heparin and warfarin. In more severe cases, thrombolytic therapy may be used to dissolve large clots rapidly. This involves administering medications through an IV that break down the clot. Additionally, inferior vena cava (IVC) filters may be placed in patients who cannot take anticoagulants to prevent clots from reaching the lungs. In extreme cases, surgical intervention may be required to remove the clot."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "آمبولی ریه (PE) یک وضعیت جدی است که هنگام تکثیر لخته خون، معمولاً از رگ‌های عمیق پاها، به ریه‌ها سفر کرده و شریان ریه یا شاخه‌های آن را مسدود می‌کند. این انسداد می‌تواند منجر به کاهش جریان خون، کاهش تأمین اکسیژن به بافت ریه و حتی مرگ در صورت عدم درمان فوری شود. عوامل خطر شامل بی‌تحرکی طولانی مدت، جراحی، برخی شرایط پزشکی و سابقه ترومبوز وریدی هستند.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تنگی نفس: یک عدم تنفس ناگهانی و توضیح‌ناپذیر که ممکن است با تلاش شدیدتر شود.",
      "درد قفسه سینه: اغلب تیز و ممکن است در هنگام نفس عمیق، سرفه یا خم شدن بدتر شود.",
      "سرفه: سرفه مداوم که ممکن است ترشحات خونی تولید کند.",
      "تپش قلب سریع: افزایش ضربان قلب (تاکی کاردی) که ممکن است به عنوان پاسخی به کاهش سطح اکسیژن رخ دهد.",
      "تورم پا: علائم ممکن است همچنین در پاها وجود داشته باشد، شامل تورم، درد و گرما که معمولاً نشان‌دهنده ترومبوز ورید عمیق است."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان‌های اصلی برای آمبولی ریه شامل داروهای ضد انعقاد است که به جلوگیری از لخته شدن بیشتر و اجازه به بدن برای حل تدریجی لخته موجود کمک می‌کند. داروهای ضد انعقاد متداول شامل هپارین و وافارین هستند. در موارد شدیدتر، درمان ترومبولیتیک ممکن است برای سریعتر شکستن لخته‌های بزرگ استفاده شود. این شامل تجویز داروها به صورت IV است که لخته را تجزیه می‌کند. علاوه بر این، فیلترهای وریدپایه (IVC) ممکن است در بیمارانی که نمی‌توانند داروهای ضد انعقاد مصرف کنند، نصب شود تا از رسیدن لخته‌ها به ریه جلوگیری کند. در موارد شدید، ممکن است به مداخله جراحی نیاز باشد تا لخته از بدن خارج شود."
  }
}