```json
{
  "en": {
    "description": "Sinus Node Dysfunction (SND), also known as sick sinus syndrome, is a condition in which the heart's natural pacemaker (the sinus node) fails to function properly, leading to abnormal heart rhythms. This dysfunction can cause the heart to beat too slowly, too quickly, or in an irregular pattern, often resulting in symptoms such as lightheadedness, fatigue, and palpitations.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Bradycardia: This is characterized by an abnormally slow heart rate, which can cause fatigue, dizziness, or fainting.",
      "Tachycardia: In some cases, the heart may beat too quickly, leading to feelings of palpitations or anxiety.",
      "Irregular heartbeats: Patients may experience episodes of skipped beats or irregular rhythms that can cause discomfort.",
      "Fatigue: A general feeling of tiredness that is not relieved by rest can commonly occur.",
      "Dizziness or lightheadedness: Patients may experience episodes of dizziness, especially when standing up or exerting themselves."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for Sinus Node Dysfunction often focuses on managing symptoms and may vary based on the severity of the condition. In mild cases, a doctor may recommend lifestyle modifications such as avoiding triggers and managing stress. For those experiencing significant symptoms or complications, a pacemaker may be implanted to regulate the heart's rhythm and ensure it beats at an appropriate rate. Regular follow-up with a cardiologist is important to monitor the patient's condition and make any necessary adjustments to treatment."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "اختلال عملکرد گره سینوسی (SND)، که به عنوان سندرم سینوس بیمار نیز شناخته می‌شود، وضعیت‌ای است که در آن پیس‌میکر طبیعی قلب (گره سینوسی) به درستی کار نمی‌کند و منجر به ریتم‌های غیرطبیعی قلب می‌شود. این اختلال می‌تواند باعث شود که قلب به طور غیرعادی آهسته، سریع یا به صورت نامنظم بتپد و اغلب با علائمی همچون سرگیجه، خستگی و تپش قلب همراه است.",
    "symptoms": [
      "کُند ضربانی: این ویژگی به ضربان قلب غیرطبیعی آهسته اشاره دارد که می‌تواند باعث خستگی، سرگیجه یا بیهوشی شود.",
      "تپش قلب سریع: در برخی موارد، قلب ممکن است خیلی سریع بتپد که منجر به احساس تپش قلب یا اضطراب می‌شود.",
      "ضربان‌های نامنظم: بیماران ممکن است دوره‌های ضربان‌های ناقص یا ریتم‌های نامنظم را تجربه کنند که ممکن است باعث راحتی شود.",
      "خستگی: احساس کلی خستگی که با استراحت تسکین نمی‌یابد، می‌تواند شایع باشد.",
      "سرگیجه یا سبکی سر: بیماران ممکن است دوران سرگیجه را تجربه کنند، به‌ویژه زمانی که از خواب یا تلاش برمی‌خیزند."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان اختلال عملکرد گره سینوسی عمدتاً بر روی مدیریت علائم متمرکز است و ممکن است بسته به شدت وضعیت متفاوت باشد. در موارد خفیف، پزشک ممکن است اصلاحات سبک زندگی مانند اجتناب از محرک‌ها و مدیریت استرس را توصیه کند. برای کسانی که علائم قابل توجه یا عوارضی را تجربه می‌کنند، ممکن است یک پیس‌میکر کاشته شود تا ریتم قلب را تنظیم کرده و اطمینان حاصل کند که در نرخ مناسبی بتپد. پیگیری منظم با یک کاردیولوژیست برای نظارت بر وضعیت بیمار و انجام هرگونه تنظیمات لازم در درمان مهم است."
  }
}
```