{
  "en": {
    "description": "Tetralogy of Fallot is a congenital heart defect characterized by four anatomical abnormalities: ventricular septal defect (a hole between the heart's two lower chambers), pulmonary stenosis (narrowing of the outflow tract from the right ventricle), overriding aorta (the aorta is positioned directly over the ventricular septal defect instead of over the left ventricle), and right ventricular hypertrophy (thickening of the muscular walls of the right ventricle). This condition leads to reduced oxygenation of blood and can cause cyanotic spells, especially during exertion. Tetralogy of Fallot is typically diagnosed in infancy or early childhood and often requires surgical intervention to correct the defects and improve blood flow.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Cyanosis: A bluish tint to the skin, especially around the lips and fingers, caused by low oxygen levels in the blood.",
      "Shortness of breath: Difficulty breathing or breathlessness, particularly during physical activity.",
      "Fatigue: Excessive tiredness or lack of energy, which may be more pronounced with exertion.",
      "Heart murmur: An unusual sound heard during a heartbeat, resulting from turbulent blood flow through the heart or lungs.",
      "Tet spells: Sudden episodes of severe cyanosis, often occurring during crying or feeding, which may be alleviated by squatting or bringing the knees to the chest."
    ],
    "treatments": "The primary treatment for Tetralogy of Fallot is surgical repair, typically performed within the first year of life. The surgery aims to close the ventricular septal defect, relieve the pulmonary stenosis, and properly position the aorta. The procedure may involve creating a patch for the ventricular septal defect and widening the pulmonary outflow tract, depending on the severity of the defects. After surgery, most children will need regular follow-up care with a cardiologist to monitor heart function and detect any potential complications. Additional treatments may include medication to manage symptoms, such as beta-blockers to reduce cardiac workload, and in some cases, interventions to address arrhythmias."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "چهارگانه فالوت یک نقص قلبی مادرزادی است که با چهار ناهنجاری آناتومیک مشخص می‌شود: نقص سپتوم بطنی (یک سوراخ بین دو حفره پایینی قلب)، تنگی شریان ریوی (تنگی مجرای خروجی از بطن راست)، آئورت متجاوز (آئورت به طور مستقیم بالای نقص سپتوم بطنی قرار دارد به جای اینکه بالای بطن چپ باشد) و هایپرتروفی بطن راست (ضخیم شدن دیواره‌های عضلانی بطن راست). این شرایط منجر به کاهش اکسیژن‌گیری خون می‌شود و می‌تواند به بروز حملات سیانوتیک، به ویژه در حین فعالیت، منجر شود. چهارگانه فالوت معمولاً در نوزادی یا اوایل کودکی تشخیص داده می‌شود و اغلب نیاز به مداخله جراحی برای اصلاح نقص‌ها و بهبود جریان خون دارد.",
    "symptoms": [
      "سیانوز: رنگ آبی پوست، به ویژه در اطراف لب‌ها و انگشتان، ناشی از سطح پایین اکسیژن در خون.",
      "تنگی نفس: مشکل در نفس کشیدن یا نفس‌تنگی، به خصوص در طول فعالیت‌های بدنی.",
      "خستگی: خستگی بیش از حد یا کمبود انرژی، که ممکن است با فعالیت بیشتر مشهودتر باشد.",
      "صداهای غیرطبیعی قلب: صدای غیرمعمولی که در طول ضربان قلب شنیده می‌شود، ناشی از خون‌ریزی آشفته در قلب یا ریه‌ها.",
      "حملات تترا: اپیزودهای ناگهانی و شدید سیانوز، که معمولاً در هنگام گریه یا تغذیه رخ می‌دهند و ممکن است با نشستن یا نزدیک کردن زانوها به سینه تسکین یابند."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان اصلی چهارگانه فالوت اصلاح جراحی است که معمولاً در طی سال اول زندگی انجام می‌شود. این جراحی هدفش بستن نقص سپتوم بطنی، کاهش تنگی شریان ریوی و قرار دادن صحیح آئورت است. این روش ممکن است شامل ایجاد یک وصله برای نقص سپتوم بطنی و گسترش مجرای خروجی ریه باشد، بسته به شدت نقص‌ها. پس از جراحی، بیشتر کودکان نیاز به مراقبت‌های منظم با یک کاردیولوژیست برای نظارت بر عملکرد قلب و شناسایی هر گونه عوارض احتمالی خواهند داشت. درمان‌های اضافی ممکن است شامل داروهایی برای مدیریت علائم باشد، مانند بتا بلاکرها برای کاهش بار کار قلب و در برخی موارد مداخلاتی برای رسیدگی به آریتمی‌ها."
  }
}