{
  "en": {
    "description": "Apixaban is an oral anticoagulant medication that belongs to the class of factor Xa inhibitors. It is primarily used to reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation, as well as for the treatment and prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). It works by inhibiting the activity of factor Xa, which is crucial in the coagulation cascade, thereby preventing the formation of fibrin clots.",
    
    "uses": "Apixaban is commonly prescribed for patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation to prevent stroke and systemic embolism due to blood clots. It is also effective in treating and preventing deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) after surgery or in patients at risk of these conditions. Moreover, Apixaban may be used for the prevention of thromboembolic events in patients undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery. Its convenient dosing schedule and low risk of interaction with food make it a preferred choice in the management of thromboembolic disorders.",

    "side effects": [
      "Bleeding: Increased risk of bleeding, which can be serious and may manifest as unusual bruising, nosebleeds, or gastrointestinal bleeding.",
      "Anemia: A decrease in red blood cells or hemoglobin levels due to bleeding or reduced production.",
      "Hepatic impairment: Potential liver enzyme elevations leading to liver dysfunction in susceptible individuals.",
      "Skin rash: Development of rashes or skin reactions in some patients."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "اپیکسابان یک داروی رقیق‌کننده خون خوراکی است که به کلاس مهارکننده‌های فاکتور Xa تعلق دارد. این دارو عمدتاً برای کاهش خطر سکته مغزی و لخته‌های خونی در بیماران مبتلا به فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی غیر دریچه‌ای و همچنین برای درمان و پیشگیری از ترومبوز ورید عمقی (DVT) و آمبولی ریوی (PE) استفاده می‌شود. اپیکسابان با مهار فعالیت فاکتور Xa که در زنجیره انعقاد خون نقش کلیدی دارد، از تشکیل لخته‌های فیبرین جلوگیری می‌کند.",
    
    "uses": "اپیکسابان معمولاً برای بیماران مبتلا به فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی غیر دریچه‌ای برای پیشگیری از سکته مغزی و آمبولی سیستمیک به دلیل لخته‌های خونی تجویز می‌شود. این دارو همچنین در درمان و پیشگیری از ترومبوز ورید عمقی (DVT) و آمبولی ریوی (PE) بعد از جراحی یا در بیماران در معرض خطر این شرایط موثر است. علاوه بر این، اپیکسابان ممکن است برای پیشگیری از حوادث ترومبوآمبولیک در بیماران undergoing جراحی تعویض مفصل هیپ یا زانو استفاده شود. رژیم دوزبندی مناسب و خطر کم تداخل با غذا، آن را به گزینه‌ای ترجیحی در مدیریت اختلالات ترومبوآمبولیک تبدیل کرده است.",
    
    "side effects": [
      "خونریزی: افزایش خطر خونریزی که می‌تواند جدی باشد و ممکن است خود را به صورت کبودی غیرمعمول، خونریزی بینی یا خونریزی گوارشی نشان دهد.",
      "کم‌خونی: افت در تعداد گلبول‌های قرمز یا سطح هموگلوبین به دلیل خونریزی یا تولید کاهش‌یافته.",
      "اختلالات کبدی: افزایش آنزیم‌های کبدی که ممکن است منجر به اختلال عملکرد کبد در افراد مستعد شود.",
      "کهیر: بروز کهیر یا واکنش‌های پوستی در برخی بیماران."
    ]
  }
}