{
  "en": {
    "description": "Bisoprolol is a selective beta-1 adrenergic receptor blocker primarily used in the management of hypertension and heart failure. By blocking the effects of adrenaline on the heart, it reduces heart rate and decreases blood pressure, leading to improved cardiovascular efficiency. It is commonly prescribed as part of a comprehensive treatment strategy to minimize the risk of cardiovascular events.",
    "uses": "Bisoprolol is commonly used to treat high blood pressure, reducing the risk of stroke and heart attack. It is also employed in the management of heart failure, as it helps to improve heart function and reduce symptoms of congestive heart failure. Additionally, it may be used to manage certain types of arrhythmias, providing better heart rhythm stability for patients.",
    "side effects": [
      "Fatigue: A common side effect that may occur as the body adjusts to the medication.",
      "Dizziness: Can happen due to lower blood pressure effects from the drug.",
      "Bradycardia: A slowing of the heart rate that can occur with this medication.",
      "Cold hands/feet: Reduced circulation may lead to this sensation.",
      "Shortness of breath: Some individuals might experience this, especially if they have underlying respiratory issues.",
      "Gastrointestinal issues: May include nausea, diarrhea, or constipation."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "بیسوپروLOL یک مسدودکننده انتخابی گیرنده‌های آدرنرژیک بتا-1 است که به طور عمده در مدیریت فشار خون بالا و نارسایی قلبی استفاده می‌شود. با مسدود کردن اثرات آدرنالین بر روی قلب، ضربان قلب را کاهش داده و فشار خون را پایین می‌آورد که منجر به بهبود کارایی قلبی-عروقی می‌شود. این دارو به طور رایج به عنوان بخشی از یک استراتژی درمانی جامع تجویز می‌شود تا ریسک حوادث عروقی را کاهش دهد.",
    "uses": "بیسوپروLOL به طور معمول برای درمان فشار خون بالا استفاده می‌شود که خطر سکته مغزی و حمله قلبی را کاهش می‌دهد. همچنین در مدیریت نارسایی قلبی به کار می‌رود زیرا به بهبود عملکرد قلب و کاهش علائم احتقان قلبی کمک می‌کند. علاوه بر این، ممکن است برای مدیریت برخی از انواع آریتمی‌ها استفاده شود تا ثبات ضربان قلب بیماران را بهبود بخشد.",
    "side effects": [
      "خستگی: عارضه‌ای شایع که ممکن است به دلیل سازگاری بدن با دارو اتفاق بیفتد.",
      "سرگیجه: ممکن است به دلیل کاهش فشار خون ناشی از دارو رخ دهد.",
      "براکی‌کاردی: کند شدن ضربان قلب که می‌تواند با این دارو اتفاق بیفتد.",
      "دست‌ها/پاهای سرد: کاهش گردش خون ممکن است به این حس منجر شود.",
      "تنفس کوتاه: برخی از افراد ممکن است با آن مواجه شوند، به ویژه اگر مشکلات تنفسی زمینه‌ای داشته باشند.",
      "مشکلات گوارشی: ممکن است شامل حالت تهوع، اسهال یا یبوست باشد."
    ]
  }
}