{
  "en": {
    "description": "Diltiazem is a calcium channel blocker that is primarily used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure), angina (chest pain associated with heart disease), and certain heart rhythm disorders. It works by relaxing the heart muscle and blood vessels, which helps to lower blood pressure and improve blood flow.",
    "uses": "Diltiazem is commonly prescribed for managing high blood pressure in patients who may be at risk of cardiovascular complications. It is also used to treat angina pectoris, alleviating chest pain during physical exertion or stress by increasing blood flow to the heart. Additionally, Diltiazem can be effective in treating certain types of arrhythmias, helping to maintain a normal heart rhythm in patients with conditions like atrial fibrillation.\n\nDiltiazem is beneficial for patients who cannot tolerate other antihypertensive medications or have specific indications for its use. Its dual action on vascular smooth muscle and the heart makes it suitable for patients with concurrent coronary artery disease. It may also be useful in managing migraines and preventing cluster headaches in some cases.",
    "side effects": [
      "Dizziness: A feeling of lightheadedness or vertigo, often due to the lowering of blood pressure.",
      "Headache: Pain or discomfort in the head region, which may occur as a common reaction to medication.",
      "Fatigue: A sense of extreme tiredness or lack of energy, sometimes experienced by patients as their bodies adjust.",
      "Nausea: A feeling of sickness with an inclination to vomit, which may result from side effects of the drug.",
      "Swelling of ankles or feet: Edema may occur due to fluid retention as a response to the medication."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "دیلتیازم یک مسدود کننده کانال کلسیم است که عمدتاً برای درمان فشار خون بالا (هیپرتنشن)، آنژین (درد قفسه سینه مربوط به بیماری قلبی) و برخی اختلالات ریتم قلب استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با شل کردن عضلات قلب و رگ‌های خونی عمل می‌کند، که باعث کاهش فشار خون و بهبود جریان خون می‌شود.",
    "uses": "دیلتیازم معمولاً برای مدیریت فشار خون بالا در بیمارانی که ممکن است در معرض عوارض قلبی عروقی باشند تجویز می‌شود. همچنین برای درمان آنژین پکتوریس، کمک به کاهش درد قفسه سینه در حین ورزش یا استرس با افزایش جریان خون به قلب مورد استفاده قرار می‌گیرد. علاوه بر این، دیلتیازم می‌تواند در درمان برخی انواع آریتمی‌ها مؤثر باشد و به حفظ ریتم عادی قلب در بیمارانی که شرایطی مانند فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی دارند کمک کند.\n\nدیلتیازم برای بیمارانی که نمی‌توانند سایر داروهای ضد فشار خون را تحمل کنند یا نشانگرهای خاصی برای استفاده از آن دارند مفید است. اثر دوگانه آن بر روی عضلات صاف عروقی و قلب آن را برای بیمارانی که به طور همزمان بیماری عروق کرونر دارند مناسب می‌سازد. همچنین ممکن است در مدیریت میگرن و پیشگیری از سردردهای خوشه‌ای در برخی موارد مفید باشد.",
    "side effects": [
      "سرگیجه: احساس سبکی سر یا سرگیجه، معمولاً به دلیل کاهش فشار خون.",
      "سردرد: درد یا ناراحتی در ناحیه سر، که ممکن است به عنوان یک واکنش رایج به داروها رخ دهد.",
      "خستگی: احساس خستگی شدید یا کمبود انرژی، که گاهی اوقات بیماران در حین سازگاری با دارو تجربه می‌کنند.",
      "تهوع: احساس بیماری با تمایل به استفراغ، که ممکن است ناشی از عوارض جانبی دارو باشد.",
      "تورم مچ پا یا پاها: ادم می‌تواند به دلیل احتباس مایع به عنوان پاسخ به دارو رخ دهد."
    ]
  }
}