{
  "en": {
    "description": "Dronedarone is a cardiovascular medication primarily used to help maintain normal heart rhythm in individuals with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. It belongs to a class of drugs known as antiarrhythmics and works by prolonging the cardiac action potential and refractory period, thereby helping to prevent irregular heartbeats. Dronedarone is often prescribed for patients who have had recent episodes of atrial fibrillation, with the aim of reducing hospitalizations and the risk of stroke and other complications associated with this condition.",

    "uses": "Dronedarone is primarily used in the management of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter. It is particularly effective for patients who wish to maintain sinus rhythm and reduce the frequency of episodes or are at high risk of complications related to these arrhythmias. Additionally, it may be used in patients who have a history of these conditions but are not suitable candidates for electrical cardioversion or ablation procedures.\n\nMoreover, dronedarone is beneficial for controlling heart rate in patients who experience rapid heartbeats or for those who require rhythm management post-ablation. It serves to enhance the overall quality of life for patients managing chronic atrial fibrillation by reducing symptoms and preventing progression of the disease.",

    "side effects": [
      "Gastrointestinal issues: Including nausea, diarrhea, and abdominal discomfort.",
      "Liver toxicity: Elevated liver enzymes and potential liver injury.",
      "Cardiac effects: Can lead to bradycardia (slowed heart rate) or new atrial fibrillation in some patients.",
      "Skin reactions: Possible rashes or hypersensitivity reactions.",
      "Pulmonary issues: Rare but severe lung problems such as interstitial lung disease."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "دروندارون یک داروی قلبی و عروقی است که عمدتاً برای کمک به حفظ ریتم نرمال قلب در افرادی که از فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی یا تپش دهلیزی رنج می‌برند، استفاده می‌شود. این دارو به دسته‌ای از داروها به نام ضد آریتمی‌ها تعلق دارد و با افزایش زمان پتانسیل و زمان غیرقابل تحریک قلبی کار می‌کند که به جلوگیری از ضربان‌های غیرمنظم قلب کمک می‌کند. داروی درووندارون معمولاً برای بیمارانی تجویز می‌شود که دوره‌های اخیر فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی داشته‌اند به منظور کاهش بستری شدن در بیمارستان‌ها و خطر سکته و سایر عوارض مرتبط با این وضعیت.",

    "uses": "دروندارون عمدتاً در مدیریت فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی و تپش دهلیزی استفاده می‌شود. این دارو به ویژه برای بیمارانی که می‌خواهند ریتم سینوسی را حفظ کنند و فراوانی دوره‌ها را کاهش دهند یا در خطر بالای ابتلا به عوارض مرتبط با این آریتمی‌ها قرار دارند، مؤثر است.\n\nعلاوه بر این، درووندارون برای کنترل ضربان قلب در بیمارانی که ضربانات قلبی سریعی را تجربه می‌کنند یا برای کسانی که پس از جراحی ابلاسیون نیاز به مدیریت ریتم دارند، مفید است. این دارو به بهبود کیفیت کلی زندگی بیماران مدیریت‌کننده فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی مزمن کمک می‌کند و با کاهش علائم و جلوگیری از پیشرفت بیماری، نفع می‌دهد.",

    "side effects": [
      "مشکلات گوارشی: شامل تهوع، اسهال و ناراحتی شکمی.",
      "سمیت کبدی: افزایش آنزیم‌های کبدی و احتمال آسیب به کبد.",
      "عوارض قلبی: ممکن است منجر به برادیکاردی (کاهش ضربان قلب) یا فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی جدید در برخی بیماران شود.",
      "واکنش‌های پوستی: ممکن است خارش و یا واکنش‌های حساسیتی ایجاد کند.",
      "مشکلات ریه: مسائل شدیدتر ولی نادر تنفسی مانند بیماری‌های ریه بینابینی."
    ]
  }
}