{
 "en": {
    "description": "Enalapril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor commonly used to treat high blood pressure and heart failure. By inhibiting the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II, it helps relax blood vessels, which decreases blood pressure and improves blood flow. This medication can also be beneficial for patients following a heart attack and those with certain kidney conditions.",
    "uses": "Enalapril is primarily used to manage hypertension, helping to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events such as heart attacks and strokes. It is also prescribed for treating heart failure, as it can improve symptoms and enhance quality of life by reducing the workload on the heart. Furthermore, it is sometimes used in diabetic patients to protect the kidneys from damage due to diabetes-related complications.\n\nIn addition to these primary uses, Enalapril may be administered post-myocardial infarction to improve survival rates and recovery. The medication is also effective in certain cases of chronic kidney disease, particularly in patients with hypertension. Regular monitoring is advised to assess the patient's response to treatment and adjust dosages accordingly.",
    "side effects": [
      "Cough: A persistent dry cough may develop in some patients due to the accumulation of bradykinin.",
      "Dizziness: Enalapril can cause low blood pressure, leading to dizziness or lightheadedness.",
      "Hyperkalemia: An increase in potassium levels in the blood can occur, which may lead to serious heart problems.",
      "Fatigue: Some individuals may experience unusual tiredness.",
      "Angioedema: A rare but serious side effect that involves swelling of the deep layers of the skin, particularly around the eyes and lips and sometimes the throat."
    ]
 },
 "fa": {
     "description": "اینالاپریل یک مهارکننده آنژیوتانسین تبدیل‌کننده آنزیم (ACE) است که به طور معمول برای درمان فشار خون بالا و نارسایی قلبی استفاده می‌شود. با مهار تبدیل آنژیوتانسین I به آنژیوتانسین II، به شل شدن عروق خونی کمک می‌کند و در نتیجه فشار خون را کاهش داده و جریان خون را بهبود می‌بخشد. این دارو همچنین می‌تواند برای بیماران بعد از حمله قلبی و کسانی که دارای شرایط خاص کلیوی هستند، مفید باشد.",
     "uses": "اینالاپریل عمدتاً برای مدیریت فشار خون بالا استفاده می‌شود تا خطر بروز حوادث قلبی عروقی مانند حمله قلبی و سکته را کاهش دهد. همچنین برای درمان نارسایی قلبی تجویز می‌شود، زیرا می‌تواند علائم را بهبود بخشیده و کیفیت زندگی را با کاهش بار قلب افزایش دهد. علاوه بر این، گاهی اوقات برای بیماران دیابتی به منظور حفاظت از کلیه‌ها در برابر آسیب‌های ناشی از عوارض دیابت مصرف می‌شود.\n\nعلاوه بر این موارد، اینالاپریل ممکن است پس از انفارکتوس میوکارد برای بهبود نرخ بقا و بهبودی تجویز شود. این دارو همچنین در موارد خاصی از بیماری کلیوی مزمن، به ویژه در بیماران دارای فشار خون بالا مؤثر است. نظارت منظم برای ارزیابی پاسخ بیمار به درمان و تنظیم دوزها بر اساس نیاز ضروری است.",
     "side effects": [
       "سرفه: ممکن است در بعضی از بیماران سرفه خشک و مداوم به وجود آید که ناشی از تجمع برادی‌کینین است.",
       "سرگیجه: اینالاپریل می‌تواند باعث کاهش فشار خون شود و به همین دلیل منجر به سرگیجه یا سبکی سر شود.",
       "هیپرکالمی: ممکن است سطح پتاسیم در خون افزایش یابد که می‌تواند مشکلات جدی قلبی ایجاد کند.",
       "خستگی: بعضی افراد ممکن است خستگی غیرمعمولی را تجربه کنند.",
       "آنژیوادم: یک عارضه نادر اما جدی که شامل تورم لایه‌های عمیق پوست، به ویژه در اطراف چشم‌ها و لب‌ها و گاهی اوقات گلو می‌شود."
     ]
 }
}