{
  "en": {
    "description": "Eplerenone is a selective aldosterone receptor antagonist used primarily to treat high blood pressure and heart failure. It works by blocking the action of aldosterone, a hormone that causes the kidneys to retain sodium and water, leading to increased blood volume and pressure. By inhibiting aldosterone, Eplerenone promotes excretion of sodium and water, which can help lower blood pressure and reduce the workload on the heart.",
    "uses": "Eplerenone is commonly used in managing hypertension, particularly in patients who may also have heart failure or are at risk for heart disease. It is also utilized in patients who have experienced a recent myocardial infarction with left ventricular dysfunction. Additionally, Eplerenone is beneficial for patients with heart failure after a heart attack, as it can help prevent further cardiovascular events and improve survival rates.\n\nAnother use of Eplerenone is in the treatment of primary hyperaldosteronism, a condition characterized by excessive production of aldosterone. In such cases, it can help normalize blood pressure and correct electrolyte imbalances, leading to improved patient outcomes.",
    "side effects": [
      "Hyperkalemia: Elevated potassium levels in the blood, which can lead to serious heart rhythm problems.",
      "Hypotension: Low blood pressure, leading to dizziness, fainting, or lightheadedness.",
      "Dizziness: A feeling of lightheadedness or unsteadiness, especially when standing up.",
      "Fatigue: An overall feeling of tiredness or lack of energy.",
      "Gastrointestinal issues: Including nausea, diarrhea, or abdominal pain."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "اپلرنون یک آنتاگونیست انتخابی گیرنده‌های آلدوسترون است که عمدتاً برای درمان فشار خون بالا و نارسایی قلبی استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با مسدود کردن اثر آلدوسترون، هورمونی که باعث نگهداری سدیم و آب در کلیه‌ها می‌شود، عمل می‌کند و منجر به افزایش حجم و فشار خون می‌شود. با مهار آلدوسترون، اپلرنون موجب دفع سدیم و آب می‌شود که می‌تواند به کاهش فشار خون و کاهش بار بر روی قلب کمک کند.",
    "uses": "اپلرنون معمولاً در مدیریت فشار خون بالا استفاده می‌شود، به ویژه در بیمارانی که ممکن است همچنین نارسایی قلبی داشته باشند یا در معرض خطر بیماری قلبی باشند. همچنین در بیمارانی که دچار انفارکتوس میوکارد اخیر و اختلال عملکرد بطن چپ هستند، استفاده می‌شود. علاوه بر این، اپلرنون برای بیماران با نارسایی قلبی پس از حمله قلبی مفید است و می‌تواند از وقوع مجدد حوادث قلبی عروقی جلوگیری کرده و میزان بقا را بهبود بخشد.\n\nاستفاده دیگری از اپلرنون در درمان هایپرآلدسترانونیسم اولیه، وضعیتی است که با تولید بیش از حد آلدوسترون مشخص می‌شود. در چنین مواردی، این دارو می‌تواند به نرمال کردن فشار خون و اصلاح عدم تعادل‌های الکترولیتی کمک کرده و به نتایج بهتری برای بیماران منجر شود.",
    "side effects": [
      "هیپرکالمی: افزایش سطح پتاسیم در خون که می‌تواند منجر به مشکلات جدی ریتم قلب شود.",
      "افت فشار خون: فشار خون پایین که می‌تواند منجر به سرگیجه، غش یا سبکی سر شود.",
      "سرگیجه: احساس سبکی یا عدم تعادل، به خصوص هنگام برخاستن.",
      "خستگی: احساس کلی خستگی یا عدم انرژی.",
      "مشکلات گوارشی: از جمله تهوع، اسهال یا درد شکمی."
    ]
  }
}