{
  "en": {
    "description": "Ezetimibe is a medication used to lower cholesterol levels in the blood. It works by inhibiting the absorption of cholesterol from the intestines, thereby reducing the overall amount of cholesterol that enters the bloodstream. Frequently combined with statins, Ezetimibe is prescribed to individuals who have high cholesterol levels, particularly those who are at risk of cardiovascular diseases. It can be effective in reducing low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, improving lipid profiles, and promoting heart health.",
    "uses": "Ezetimibe is primarily used to treat hyperlipidemia, particularly in patients who have not achieved desired cholesterol levels through diet and exercise alone. It may be prescribed for individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia or those with a history of cardiovascular events to further reduce the risk of heart disease. In combination with statins, Ezetimibe has shown enhanced efficacy in lowering LDL cholesterol levels, making it a popular choice for managing dyslipidemia.\n\nAdditionally, Ezetimibe is sometimes used off-label in certain cases of atherosclerosis and metabolic syndrome, with the aim of improving overall cardiovascular health. Its mechanism of action makes it suitable for patients who may have contraindications to statins or who experience significant side effects from them, allowing for effective cholesterol management.",
    "side effects": [
      "Abdominal pain: Discomfort or pain in the stomach area that may occur after taking the medication.",
      "Diarrhea: Increased frequency of bowel movements or loose stools.",
      "Fatigue: A general feeling of tiredness or lack of energy.",
      "Headache: A common symptom that may occur while taking Ezetimibe.",
      "Muscle pain: Discomfort or pain in the muscles, which may be associated with statin use as well.",
      "Liver enzyme abnormalities: Elevated liver enzymes may occur, necessitating monitoring during treatment."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "ایزتیمیب دارویی است که برای کاهش سطح کلسترول خون استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با مهار جذب کلسترول از روده‌ها کار می‌کند و به این ترتیب مقدار کلی کلسترولی که وارد جریان خون می‌شود را کاهش می‌دهد. ایزتیمیب معمولاً همراه با استاتین‌ها تجویز می‌شود و برای افرادی که دارای سطح کلسترول بالایی هستند، به‌ویژه کسانی که در معرض بیماری‌های قلبی و عروقی قرار دارند، تجویز می‌گردد. این دارو می‌تواند در کاهش کلسترول لیپوپروتئین کم‌چگالی (LDL) مؤثر بوده و پروفایل لیپید را بهبود بخشد و سلامت قلب را ترویج کند.",
    "uses": "ایزتیمیب عمدتاً برای درمان هیپری‌لیپیدمی، به‌ویژه در بیمارانی که با رژیم غذایی و ورزش به سطوح مطلوب کلسترول دست نیافته‌اند، استفاده می‌شود. ممکن است برای افراد دارای هیپرکلسترولمی فامیلی یا کسانی که سابقه رویدادهای قلبی دارند، تجویز شود تا خطر بیماری قلبی را بیشتر کاهش دهد. در ترکیب با استاتین‌ها، ایزتیمیب نشان داده است که در کاهش سطح کلسترول LDL اثر بخشی بیشتری دارد که آن را به انتخابی محبوب برای مدیریت دیس‌لیپیدمی تبدیل می‌کند.\n\nعلاوه بر این، ایزتیمیب گاهی به‌صورت خارج از برچسب (off-label) در برخی موارد آتروما و سندرم متابولیک استفاده می‌شود، با هدف بهبود سلامت کلی قلبی-عروقی. مکانیزم عمل آن این دارو را برای بیمارانی که ممکن است منع مصرف استاتین‌ها را داشته باشند یا عوارض جانبی قابل توجهی از آن‌ها تجربه کنند، مناسب می‌سازد و امکان مدیریت مؤثر کلسترول را فراهم می‌آورد.",
    "side effects": [
      "درد شکم: ناراحتی یا دردی در ناحیه شکم که ممکن است پس از مصرف دارو اتفاق بیفتد.",
      "اسهال: افزایش فراوانی حرکات روده یا مدفوع شل.",
      "خستگی: احساس عمومی خستگی یا کمبود انرژی.",
      "سردرد: علامتی شایع که ممکن است در حین مصرف ایزتیمیب اتفاق بیفتد.",
      "درد عضلانی: ناراحتی یا دردی در عضلات که ممکن است با مصرف استاتین‌ها نیز همراه باشد.",
      "افزایش آنزیم‌های کبدی: ممکن است افزایش آنزیم‌های کبدی اتفاق بیفتد که نیاز به نظارت در طول درمان دارد."
    ]
  }
}