{
  "en": {
    "description": "Fondaparinux is a synthetic anticoagulant that belongs to the class of medications known as factor Xa inhibitors. It is used to prevent and treat thrombosis and thromboembolism by inhibiting factor Xa, thereby affecting the common pathway of hemostasis. This medication is primarily used in patients undergoing orthopedic or abdominal surgery, as well as those with deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE).",
    
    "uses": "Fondaparinux is commonly used for the prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis in patients undergoing major orthopedic surgeries, such as hip or knee replacements. Additionally, it is used for the treatment of established DVT and PE, especially when patients are at high risk of recurrence. By preventing the formation of new clots and stopping existing clots from growing, Fondaparinux contributes to safer recovery in surgical patients and improves outcomes in those with established thromboembolic disease.",

    "side effects": [
      "Bleeding: Fondaparinux can increase the risk of bleeding, which can manifest as prolonged bleeding from cuts, nosebleeds, or unusual bruising.",
      "Anemia: Some patients may experience a decrease in red blood cell count, leading to symptoms such as fatigue and weakness.",
      "Injection site reactions: Pain, redness, or irritation may occur at the injection site, which can be uncomfortable for patients.",
      "Thrombocytopenia: A decrease in platelet count may occur, which can affect clotting ability."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "فوندپارینوکس یک آنتی‌کوآگولانت مصنوعی است که به دسته‌ای از داروها به نام مهارکننده‌های فاکتور Xa تعلق دارد. این دارو برای پیشگیری و درمان ترومبوز و ترومبوآمبولیسم استفاده می‌شود و با مهار فاکتور Xa، بر روی مسیر مشترک هموستاز تأثیر می‌گذارد. این دارو عمدتاً در بیمارانی که تحت جراحی‌های ارتوپدی یا شکمی قرار دارند و همچنین در بیماران مبتلا به ترومبوز ورید عمقی (DVT) و آمبولی ریه (PE) استفاده می‌شود.",
    
    "uses": "فوندپارینوکس معمولاً برای پیشگیری از ترومبوز ورید عمقی در بیماران تحت جراحی‌های بزرگ ارتوپدی مانند تعویض مفصل هیپ یا زانو استفاده می‌شود. علاوه بر این، این دارو برای درمان DVT و PE که به ویژه در بیمارانی که در معرض خطر بالای عود هستند، استفاده می‌شود. با جلوگیری از تشکیل لخته‌های جدید و متوقف کردن رشد لخته‌های موجود، فوندپارینوکس به بهبودی ایمن‌تر در بیماران جراحی کمک می‌کند و نتایج بهتری را برای افرادی که با بیماری‌های ترومبوآمبولیک مواجه هستند، فراهم می‌سازد.",
    
    "side effects": [
      "خونریزی: فوندپارینوکس می‌تواند خطر خونریزی را افزایش دهد که می‌تواند به صورت خونریزی طولانی از زخم‌ها، خونریزی از بینی یا کبودی‌های غیرمعمول ظاهر شود.",
      "کم‌خونی: برخی از بیماران ممکن است کاهش شمارش گلبول‌های قرمز را تجربه کنند که می‌تواند باعث علائمی نظیر خستگی و ضعف شود.",
      "واکنش‌های محل تزریق: ممکن است درد، قرمزی یا تحریک در محل تزریق رخ دهد که ممکن است برای بیماران ناخوشایند باشد.",
      "ترومبوسیتوپنی: کاهش تعداد پلاکت‌ها ممکن است اتفاق بیفتد که می‌تواند بر روی توانایی لخته شدن تأثیر بگذارد."
    ]
  }
}