{
  "en": {
    "description": "Indapamide is a thiazide-like diuretic used primarily in the treatment of hypertension and edema associated with congestive heart failure. It works by inhibiting sodium reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubule of the kidneys, leading to increased urine output and helping to lower blood pressure. Due to its mild nature, Indapamide is often chosen for long-term management of high blood pressure and is considered to have a favorable side effect profile compared to other diuretics.",
    "uses": "Indapamide is commonly prescribed for the management of hypertension, providing an effective reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure. It is also utilized for treating edema, particularly in patients with heart failure, helping to prevent fluid retention and improve symptoms related to swelling. Additionally, Indapamide may be used for the prevention of kidney stones in patients with a history of calcium nephrolithiasis, as it helps to decrease body calcium excretion.",
    "side effects": [
      "Dizziness: A feeling of light-headedness or unsteadiness, especially when standing up quickly.",
      "Electrolyte imbalance: Possible changes in blood levels of sodium, potassium, and magnesium leading to various complications.",
      "Increased urination: As a diuretic, it causes frequent urination, which may lead to dehydration if fluid intake is not adequate.",
      "Headache: Patients may experience mild to moderate headaches during treatment."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "Indapamide یک دیورتیک شبیه به تیازید است که به‌طور عمده در درمان فشار خون بالا و ادم مرتبط با نارسایی قلبی استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با مهار بازجذب سدیم در لولهٔ پیچ‌خوردهٔ دور کلیه‌ها عمل می‌کند، که منجر به افزایش تولید ادرار و کمک به کاهش فشار خون می‌شود. به‌دلیل طبیعت ملایم خود، Indapamide معمولاً برای مدیریت بلندمدت فشار خون بالا انتخاب می‌شود و به‌عنوان دارویی با پروفایل عوارض جانبی مناسب‌تر نسبت به سایر دیورتیک‌ها در نظر گرفته می‌شود.",
    "uses": "Indapamide معمولاً برای مدیریت فشار خون بالا تجویز می‌شود و کاهش مؤثری در فشار خون سیستولیک و دیاستولیک ایجاد می‌کند. همچنین در درمان ادم، به‌ویژه در بیماران مبتلا به نارسایی قلبی، به‌کار می‌رود و از احتباس مایع جلوگیری کرده و علائم مرتبط با تورم را بهبود می‌بخشد. علاوه بر این، Indapamide ممکن است برای پیشگیری از سنگ‌های کلیوی در بیماران با سابقهٔ سنگ‌سازی کلسیمی استفاده شود، زیرا به کاهش دفع کلسیم بدن کمک می‌کند.",
    "side effects": [
      "سرگیجه: احساس سبکی سر یا عدم تعادل، به‌ویژه هنگام ایستادن ناگهانی.",
      "عدم تعادل الکترولیت: تغییرات احتمالی در سطح سدیم، پتاسیم و منیزیم خون که می‌تواند منجر به عوارض مختلف شود.",
      "افزایش ادرار: به‌عنوان یک دیورتیک، باعث ادرار کردن مکرر می‌شود که در صورت کافی نبودن مصرف مایعات ممکن است منجر به کم‌آبی شود.",
      "سردرد: بیماران ممکن است در حین درمان سردردهای ملایم تا متوسط ​​را تجربه کنند."
    ]
  }
}