{
  "en": {
    "description": "Perindopril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor used primarily for the treatment of hypertension (high blood pressure) and heart failure. It works by relaxing blood vessels, allowing blood to flow more easily and reducing the workload on the heart. This medication helps to lower blood pressure, which can decrease the risk of strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems.",
    "uses": "Perindopril is commonly used to manage high blood pressure and can be prescribed for individuals with heart failure to improve their heart function. It is also beneficial in reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in patients with stable coronary artery disease. Additionally, it may be used to protect the kidneys in patients with diabetes.",
    "side effects": [
      "Cough: A persistent dry cough may occur due to the accumulation of bradykinin.",
      "Dizziness: Some patients may experience lightheadedness or dizziness, particularly upon standing.",
      "Hyperkalemia: An increase in potassium levels in the blood can happen, which may lead to serious heart problems.",
      "Fatigue: A feeling of tiredness or weakness can be common, especially when starting the medication.",
      "Renal impairment: Rarely, it may cause kidney dysfunction or worsen pre-existing kidney issues."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "پرندپریل یک مهارکننده آنزیم مبدل آنژیوتانسین (ACE) است که عمدتاً برای درمان فشار خون بالا و نارسایی قلبی استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با شل کردن عروق خونی، جریان خون را آسان‌تر می‌کند و بار کاری قلب را کاهش می‌دهد. این دارو به کاهش فشار خون کمک می‌کند که می‌تواند خطر سکته مغزی، حمله قلبی و مشکلات کلیوی را کاهش دهد.",
    "uses": "پرندپریل معمولاً برای کنترل فشار خون بالا تجویز می‌شود و می‌تواند برای افرادی که نارسایی قلبی دارند، برای بهبود عملکرد قلب استفاده شود. همچنین برای کاهش خطر حوادث قلبی عروقی در بیماران با بیماری شریان کرونری پایدار مفید است. علاوه بر این، ممکن است برای محافظت از کلیه‌ها در بیماران دیابتی استفاده شود.",
    "side effects": [
      "سرفه: سرفه خشک و مداوم ممکن است به دلیل تجمع برادی کینین ایجاد شود.",
      "سرگیجه: برخی بیماران ممکن است احساس سبکی سر یا سرگیجه داشته باشند، به خصوص هنگام ایستادن.",
      "هیپرکالمی: افزایش سطح پتاسیم در خون ممکن است رخ دهد که می‌تواند منجر به مشکلات جدی قلبی شود.",
      "خستگی: احساس خستگی یا ضعف، به ویژه در ابتدای مصرف دارو، شایع است.",
      "نارسایی کلیوی: به طور نادر، می‌تواند باعث اختلال عملکرد کلیه یا بدتر شدن مشکلات کلیوی موجود شود."
    ]
  }
}