{
  "en": {
    "description": "Quinapril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor primarily used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and heart failure. By preventing the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II, Quinapril helps to relax blood vessels and improve blood flow, ultimately lowering blood pressure and reducing the workload on the heart. It may also be utilized in specific cases of kidney disease and after heart attacks to improve overall cardiovascular health.",
    "uses": "Quinapril is often prescribed for the management of hypertension, allowing patients to maintain a healthier blood pressure level. It is also beneficial in the treatment of heart failure, helping to alleviate symptoms and improve quality of life. Additionally, Quinapril is sometimes utilized in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) as it may help to protect renal function by lowering blood pressure and reducing proteinuria.\n\nIn certain post-myocardial infarction cases, Quinapril can be administered to patients to aid in the prevention of further cardiovascular events. Furthermore, it may be prescribed for those with left ventricular dysfunction following a heart attack to enhance cardiac efficiency and decrease the risk of heart failure.",
    "side effects": [
      "Dizziness: Caused by lowered blood pressure, potentially leading to lightheadedness or fainting.",
      "Cough: A persistent dry cough can occur due to the accumulation of bradykinin.",
      "Fatigue: Some patients may experience general tiredness or weakness.",
      "Headache: As a side effect, headaches can result from changes in blood pressure regulation.",
      "Rash: Skin rashes may occur in some individuals, indicating a potential allergic reaction."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "کیناپریل یک مهارکننده آنزیم مبدل آنژیوتانسین (ACE) است که به‌طور اصلی برای درمان فشار خون بالا (هیپرلیپیدمی) و نارسایی قلبی استفاده می‌شود. با جلوگیری از تبدیل آنژیوتانسین I به آنژیوتانسین II، کیناپریل به آرامش رگ‌های خونی و بهبود جریان خون کمک می‌کند و در نهایت فشار خون را کاهش می‌دهد و بار کاری قلب را کم می‌کند. همچنین در موارد خاصی از بیماری‌های کلیوی و پس از حملات قلبی برای بهبود سلامت عمومی قلب و عروق به کار می‌رود.",
    "uses": "کیناپریل معمولاً برای مدیریت فشار خون بالا تجویز می‌شود و به بیماران کمک می‌کند تا سطح فشار خون سالم‌تری را حفظ کنند. همچنین در درمان نارسایی قلبی مفید است و به کاهش علائم و بهبود کیفیت زندگی کمک می‌کند. علاوه بر این، کیناپریل گاهی برای بیماران مبتلا به بیماری مزمن کلیوی (CKD) استفاده می‌شود زیرا می‌تواند به محافظت از عملکرد کلیه‌ها با کاهش فشار خون و کاهش پروتئینوری کمک کند.\n\nدر برخی از حالات پس از حمله قلبی، کیناپریل به بیماران تجویز می‌شود تا در پیشگیری از وقوع مجدد حوادث قلبی عروقی کمک کند. همچنین ممکن است برای افرادی که پس از حمله قلبی دچار عملکرد غیرطبیعی بطن چپ هستند، تجویز شود تا کارآیی قلب را افزایش دهد و خطر نارسایی قلبی را کاهش دهد.",
    "side effects": [
      "سرگیجه: ناشی از کاهش فشار خون که می‌تواند منجر به احساس سبکی سر یا غش شود.",
      "سرفه: سرفه خشک مداوم ممکن است به دلیل انباشت برادیکینین رخ دهد.",
      "خستگی: برخی از بیماران ممکن است احساس خستگی یا ضعف عمومی کنند.",
      "سردرد: سردرد به عنوان یک عارضه جانبی، می‌تواند ناشی از تغییرات در تنظیم فشار خون باشد.",
      "کهیر: واکنش‌های پوستی ممکن است در برخی افراد رخ دهد و نشان‌دهنده یک واکنش آلرژیک احتمالی باشد."
    ]
  }
}