{
  "en": {
    "description": "Bradycardia is a medical condition characterized by an unusually slow heart rate, typically defined as a resting heart rate of fewer than 60 beats per minute. While it can be a normal finding in athletes or during sleep, bradycardia may also be a sign of an underlying health issue, particularly if it is accompanied by symptoms such as fatigue or dizziness. It can result from age-related degeneration of the heart's electrical system, certain medications, or medical conditions affecting the heart.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Fatigue: Individuals may feel unusually tired or lack energy, which can interfere with daily activities.",
      "Dizziness: A sensation of lightheadedness or vertigo, particularly upon standing up or exertion.",
      "Fainting: Sudden loss of consciousness can occur due to insufficient blood flow to the brain.",
      "Shortness of breath: Difficulties in breathing, often experienced during physical activities.",
      "Chest pain: Discomfort or pain in the chest area, potentially indicating heart-related issues.",
      "Confusion: An altered state of awareness or mental disorientation, especially in severe cases."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for bradycardia depends on its underlying cause and the severity of symptoms. If bradycardia is caused by medication, a healthcare provider may adjust the dosage or switch to a different drug. In cases where bradycardia is symptomatic and reflects a serious underlying heart condition, a pacemaker may be necessary. A pacemaker is a small device implanted under the skin that helps regulate the heart's rhythm by sending electrical impulses. Additionally, lifestyle changes, such as exercise and a healthy diet, may be recommended to support overall heart health."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "برادی‌کاردی یک وضعیت پزشکی است که با ضربان قلب غیرمعمولاً کند مشخص می‌شود، معمولاً به عنوان ضربان قلب در حالت استراحت کمتر از 60 ضربه در دقیقه تعریف می‌شود. در حالی که این می‌تواند یک یافته طبیعی در ورزشکاران یا در حین خواب باشد، برادی‌کاردی همچنین ممکن است نشانه‌ای از یک مشکل بهداشتی زمینه‌ای باشد، به‌ویژه اگر با علائمی مانند خستگی یا سرگیجه همراه باشد. این وضعیت می‌تواند ناشی از فرسایش سنی سیستم الکتریکی قلب، برخی داروها یا شرایط پزشکی مؤثر بر قلب باشد.",
    "symptoms": [
      "خستگی: افراد ممکن است احساس خستگی غیرمعمول یا کمبود انرژی کنند که می‌تواند بر فعالیت‌های روزمره تأثیر بگذارد.",
      "سرگیجه: حس سبکی سر یا سرگیجه، به ویژه هنگام بلند شدن یا تلاش.",
      "غش: از دست دادن ناگهانی هوشیاری که ممکن است به دلیل جریان ناکافی خون به مغز اتفاق بیفتد.",
      "تنگی نفس: مشکلات در نفس کشیدن، معمولاً در حین فعالیت‌های بدنی تجربه می‌شود.",
      "درد قفسه سینه: ناراحتی یا درد در ناحیه قفسه سینه، که در صورت مشکلات قلبی می‌تواند به وجود بیاید.",
      "اختلال در سطح هوشیاری: تغییر در حالت آگاهی یا سردرگمی ذهنی، به ویژه در موارد شدید."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان برادی‌کاردی به علت زمینه‌ای و شدت علائم آن بستگی دارد. اگر برادی‌کاردی ناشی از دارو باشد، ممکن است ارائه‌دهنده درمان، دوز دارو را تنظیم کند یا به داروی دیگری منتقل شود. در مواردی که برادی‌کاردی علائم‌دار است و منعکس کننده یک مشکل جدی قلبی باشد، ممکن است نیاز به نصب پیس‌میکر باشد. پیس‌میکر دستگاهی کوچک است که زیر پوست قرار می‌گیرد و به تنظیم ریتم قلب با ارسال سیگنال‌های الکتریکی کمک می‌کند. علاوه بر این، تغییرات در سبک زندگی، مانند ورزش و رژیم غذایی سالم، ممکن است برای حمایت از سلامت عمومی قلب توصیه شود."
  }
}