{
  "en": {
    "description": "Cardiac tamponade is a medical condition characterized by the accumulation of fluid, blood, or other material in the pericardial cavity, which surrounds the heart. This build-up exerts pressure on the heart, limiting its ability to pump effectively and can lead to serious complications if not promptly treated. Causes can include trauma, pericarditis, cancer, or heart surgery. Symptoms typically develop rapidly and require urgent medical attention.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Shortness of Breath: Patients may experience difficulty breathing, especially when lying down.",
      "Rapid Heart Rate: An increased heart rate is often noted as the heart compensates for decreased cardiac output.",
      "Low Blood Pressure: Blood pressure may drop significantly due to ineffective heart pumping.",
      "Chest Discomfort: Some individuals report a feeling of tightness or pressure in the chest.",
      "Swelling: Patients may experience swelling in the legs or abdomen due to fluid retention.",
      "Anxiety or Restlessness: Low oxygen levels and decreased blood flow can lead to feelings of anxiety."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for cardiac tamponade primarily focuses on relieving the pressure on the heart. The most common intervention is pericardiocentesis, a procedure wherein a needle is inserted into the pericardial space to remove excess fluid. In cases where the tamponade is caused by an underlying condition, such as cancer or infection, addressing the root cause is essential. Other treatment options may include the placement of a pericardial drain for continuous fluid removal, and in more severe or recurrent cases, surgical intervention such as pericardiectomy may be necessary. Medications may also be used to manage symptoms and support heart function."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "تامپوناد قلبی یک وضعیت پزشکی است که با جمع شدن مایعات، خون یا مواد دیگر در حفره پری‌کاردیوم که اطراف قلب را احاطه کرده، مشخص می‌شود. این تجمع فشار به قلب وارد می‌کند و قدرت پمپاژ آن را محدود می‌سازد و اگر به موقع درمان نشود، می‌تواند منجر به عوارض جدی شود. علل آن می‌تواند شامل تروما، پری‌کاردیت، سرطان یا جراحی قلب باشد. علائم معمولاً به سرعت بروز کرده و نیازمند توجه پزشکی فوری هستند.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تنگی نفس: بیماران ممکن است در تنفس دچار مشکل شوند، به ویژه هنگام دراز کشیدن.",
      "ضربان قلب سریع: افزایش ضربان قلب معمولاً مشاهده می‌شود زیرا قلب سعی می‌کند برای جلوگیری از کاهش خروجی قلبی، جبران کند.",
      "فشار خون پایین: ممکن است فشار خون به طور قابل توجهی کاهش یابد به دلیل ناتوانی قلب در پمپاژ مؤثر.",
      "ناراحتی در قفسه سینه: برخی افراد از احساس فشردگی یا فشار در قفسه سینه شکایت دارند.",
      "تورم: بیماران ممکن است در پاها یا شکم خود دچار تورم شوند به دلیل احتباس مایع.",
      "اضطراب یا بی‌قراری: سطوح پایین اکسیژن و کاهش جریان خون می‌تواند منجر به احساس اضطراب شود."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان تامپوناد قلبی عمدتاً بر روی کاهش فشار بر روی قلب متمرکز است. متداول‌ترین مداخله، پری‌کاردیوکنتز است، روشی که در آن یک سوزن به فضای پری‌کاردیوم وارد می‌شود تا مایع اضافی خارج شود. در مواردی که تامپوناد ناشی از یک وضعیت زمینه‌ای، مانند سرطان یا عفونت باشد، پردازش علت اصلی بسیار مهم است. گزینه‌های درمانی دیگر می‌تواند شامل قرار دادن یک درن پری‌کاردیال برای خارج کردن مداوم مایع باشد و در موارد شدیدتر یا مکرر، مداخله جراحی مانند پری‌کاردیوکتومی ممکن است لازم باشد. همچنین ممکن است داروهایی برای مدیریت علائم و حمایت از عملکرد قلب استفاده شود."
  }
}