{
  "en": {
    "description": "Cardiac arrest is a sudden loss of heart function, breathing, and consciousness, resulting from an electrical malfunction in the heart that disrupts its ability to pump blood effectively. This condition is a medical emergency that can occur without warning and often follows a heart attack, although it can happen to individuals without prior heart disease. Immediate intervention is critical, as the lack of blood flow can lead to irreversible damage to organs within minutes.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Sudden collapse: The person suddenly falls down and becomes unresponsive.",
      "No pulse: There is no detectable heartbeat.",
      "No breathing: The individual may stop breathing or have weak gasping breaths.",
      "Loss of consciousness: The person does not respond to stimuli or is severely unresponsive.",
      "Chest pain: Some individuals may experience chest discomfort before collapsing."
    ],
    "treatments": "Cardiac arrest requires immediate and aggressive treatment to restore heart function and initiate blood circulation. The primary treatment is cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), which should be started immediately if a person is unresponsive and not breathing. This involves chest compressions to mimic the heart's pumping action and rescue breaths to provide oxygen. Additionally, using an automated external defibrillator (AED) can significantly increase the chance of survival by delivering an electrical shock to the heart to restore a normal rhythm. Advanced medical interventions, such as medications (epinephrine and antiarrhythmics) and advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) protocols, may be utilized by healthcare providers in a hospital setting. Post-arrest care often includes identifying and treating the underlying cause, such as coronary artery disease or arrhythmias, and may involve long-term management strategies like lifestyle modifications, medications, or surgical interventions like implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs)."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "ایست قلبی به از دست دادن ناگهانی عملکرد قلب، تنفس و هوشیاری گفته می‌شود که ناشی از اختلال الکتریکی در قلب است و توانایی آن را برای پمپاژ خون به‌طور مؤثر مختل می‌کند. این وضعیت یک اضطرار پزشکی است که می‌تواند بدون هشدار پیشین رخ دهد و معمولاً پس از حمله قلبی رخ می‌دهد، هرچند ممکن است در افرادی که سابقه بیماری قلبی ندارند نیز اتفاق بیفتد. مداخله فوری بسیار حیاتی است، زیرا عدم جریان خون می‌تواند به آسیب جبران‌ناپذیر به ارگان‌ها در عرض چند دقیقه منجر شود.",
    "symptoms": [
      "افت ناگهانی: فرد به طور ناگهانی دراز می‌کشد و از خود بی‌خود می‌شود.",
      "نبود نبض: نبض قابل تشخیصی وجود ندارد.",
      "عدم تنفس: فرد ممکن است تنفس را متوقف کند یا تنفس‌های ضعیفی داشته باشد.",
      "از دست دادن هوشیاری: فرد به محرک‌ها پاسخ نمی‌دهد یا به شدت غیرقابل واکنش است.",
      "درد قفسه سینه: برخی از افراد ممکن است قبل از افتادن درد قفسه سینه را تجربه کنند."
    ],
    "treatments": "ایست قلبی نیاز به درمان فوری و شدید دارد تا عملکرد قلب را بازگرداند و جریان خون را آغاز کند. درمان اصلی CPR (احیای قلبی ریوی) است که باید بلافاصله در صورت غیر پاسخگو بودن و عدم تنفس فرد آغاز شود. این شامل فشارهای قفسه سینه برای تقلید از عمل پمپاژ قلب و تنفس نجات بخش برای تأمین اکسیژن است. علاوه بر این، استفاده از یک دفیبریلاتور خودکار خارجی (AED) می‌تواند به طور قابل توجهی شانس بقا را افزایش دهد، زیرا شوک الکتریکی به قلب می‌دهد تا ریتم طبیعی را بازگرداند. مداخلات پزشکی پیشرفته، مانند داروها (اپی نفرین و ضد آرتمی‌ها) و پروتکل‌های احیای قلبی پیشرفته (ACLS) ممکن است در یک محیط بیمارستانی توسط ارائه‌دهندگان مراقبت‌های بهداشتی استفاده شود. مراقبت‌های پس از ایست معمولاً شامل شناسایی و درمان علت زمینه‌ای، مانند بیماری عروق کرونر یا آریتمی‌ها می‌شود و ممکن است شامل استراتژی‌های مدیریت طولانی‌مدت مانند تغییرات شیوه زندگی، داروها یا مداخلات جراحی مانند دفیبریلاتورهای داخلی قابل کاشت (ICDs) باشد."
  }
}