{
  "en": {
    "description": "Congenital Heart Disease (CHD) refers to a range of structural heart defects present at birth that affect the normal flow of blood through the heart. These defects can occur in the heart walls, valves, or blood vessels, and can range from simple issues that don’t require treatment to complex problems that may require multiple surgeries or interventions. Early diagnosis and management are crucial for improving outcomes, as symptoms can vary widely from one individual to another.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Heart murmurs: Abnormal heart sounds that may indicate a structural problem in the heart.",
      "Cyanosis: A bluish tint to the skin, lips, or fingernails, which suggests low oxygen levels in the blood.",
      "Rapid breathing: Increased rates of respiration that may indicate difficulty in getting enough oxygen.",
      "Fatigue: Unusual tiredness, especially during feeding in infants, which may signal heart strain.",
      "Poor weight gain: Inability to gain weight as expected, often due to increased energy expenditure associated with cardiac issues.",
      "Swelling: Fluid retention in the legs, abdomen, or around the eyes, indicating potential heart failure."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for Congenital Heart Disease depends on the specific defect and severity of the condition. Options may include: \n1. Medications: These may help manage symptoms such as fluid retention, high blood pressure, or abnormal heart rhythms. Common medications include diuretics, ACE inhibitors, and beta-blockers.\n2. Interventional procedures: Non-surgical techniques such as balloon angioplasty can be used to widen narrowed blood vessels or repair certain defects.\n3. Surgery: Many children with CHD require one or more surgeries to correct structural problems. These surgeries may involve repairing or replacing heart valves, closing holes in the heart, or rerouting blood flow.\n4. Long-term care: Regular follow-up with a cardiologist is essential to monitor heart health and manage any arising complications, as many individuals with CHD may face related health challenges throughout their lives."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "بیماری قلبی مادرزادی به مجموعه‌ای از نقص‌های ساختاری قلب اشاره دارد که در زمان تولد وجود دارند و بر جریان خون طبیعی در قلب تأثیر می‌گذارند. این نقص‌ها می‌توانند در دیواره‌های قلب، دریچه‌ها یا عروق خونی رخ دهند و ممکن است از مسائل ساده که به درمان نیازی ندارند تا مشکلات پیچیده‌ای که ممکن است نیاز به جراحی‌های چندگانه یا مداخلات داشته باشند، متغیر باشند. تشخیص و مدیریت زودهنگام بسیار حائز اهمیت است زیرا علائم می‌توانند از فردی به فرد دیگر متفاوت باشند.",
    "symptoms": [
      "صدای غیرطبیعی قلب: صداهای غیرعادی که ممکن است به نقص ساختاری در قلب اشاره کنند.",
      "سیانوز: رنگ آبی پوست، لب‌ها یا ناخن‌ها که نشان‌دهنده سطح پایین اکسیژن در خون است.",
      "تنفس سریع: افزایش نرخ تنفس که ممکن است به نشان‌دهنده دشواری در دریافت اکسیژن کافی باشد.",
      "خستگی: خستگی غیرعادی به‌ویژه در حین تغذیه در نوزادان که ممکن است به فشار قلبی اشاره کند.",
      "عدم افزایش وزن: ناتوانی در افزایش وزن به‌طور معمول که اغلب به دلیل افزایش مصرف انرژی مرتبط با مشکلات قلبی است.",
      "تورم: احتباس مایع در پاها، شکم یا اطراف چشم‌ها که نشان‌دهنده احتمال نارسایی قلبی است."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان بیماری قلبی مادرزادی به نقص خاص و شدت آن بستگی دارد. گزینه‌ها ممکن است شامل: \n1. داروها: این داروها ممکن است به مدیریت علائم مانند احتباس مایع، فشار خون بالا یا ضربان‌های غیرطبیعی قلب کمک کنند. داروهای رایج شامل دیورتیک‌ها، مهارکننده‌های ACE و بتا-بلوکرها هستند.\n2. روش‌های مداخله‌ای: تکنیک‌های غیرجراحی مانند آنژیوپلاستی بادکنکی می‌توانند برای گشاد کردن عروق خونی تنگ شده یا تعمیر برخی نقص‌ها استفاده شوند.\n3. جراحی: بسیاری از کودکان مبتلا به بیماری قلبی مادرزادی نیاز به یک یا چند جراحی برای اصلاح مشکلات ساختاری دارند. این جراحی‌ها می‌توانند شامل ترمیم یا تعویض دریچه‌های قلب، بستن روزنه‌های موجود در قلب یا تغییر مسیر جریان خون باشد.\n4. مراقبت درازمدت: پیگیری منظم با یک پزشک قلبی برای نظارت بر سلامت قلب و مدیریت هرگونه عوارض arising essential است، زیرا بسیاری از افراد مبتلا به بیماری قلبی مادرزادی ممکن است در طول زندگی خود با چالش‌های مرتبط به سلامت روبرو شوند."
  }
}