{
  "en": {
    "description": "Cor pulmonale is a condition that results from the dysfunction of the right side of the heart due to long-term high blood pressure in the pulmonary arteries and right ventricles. This can occur as a result of various lung diseases such as COPD, pulmonary fibrosis, or other conditions that lead to chronic hypoxia. The heart struggles to pump blood effectively through the lungs, which can lead to symptoms of heart failure and require medical intervention.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Shortness of breath: Patients may experience difficulty breathing, especially during physical activity due to reduced oxygen supply.",
      "Fatigue: Chronic tiredness may occur as a result of decreased cardiac output and persistent hypoxia.",
      "Cyanosis: A bluish tint to the lips or skin may be visible, indicating low oxygen levels in the blood.",
      "Swelling in the legs and ankles: Edema can develop as fluid builds up due to heart failure.",
      "Palpitations: Patients might notice irregular heartbeats or feeling of the heart racing.",
      "Chest discomfort: Some may experience pain or pressure in the chest area, although this is less common."
    ],
    "treatments": "The management of cor pulmonale focuses on treating the underlying cause and alleviating symptoms. This may include: \n- Administering oxygen therapy to improve oxygenation in patients with hypoxia.\n- Diuretics can be prescribed to reduce fluid overload and swelling, improving the heart's function. \n- Vasodilators may help to lower pulmonary artery pressure and reduce the workload on the right side of the heart. \n- Anticoagulation therapy may be indicated in some patients to prevent clots that can further strain the heart.\n- If chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or another lung disease is the underlying cause, treatments may include bronchodilators and corticosteroids to improve lung function. \n- In severe cases, advanced therapies such as pulmonary rehabilitation or surgical procedures like lung transplantation could be options."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "کور پلموناله حالتی است که ناشی از اختلال عملکرد سمت راست قلب به علت فشار خون بالا در شریان‌های ریه و بطن‌های راست است. این وضعیت می‌تواند به دلیل بیماری‌های ریوی مختلفی مانند بیماری انسدادی مزمن ریه (COPD)، فیبروز ریوی یا سایر شرایطی که منجر به هیپوکسی مزمن می‌شود، رخ دهد. قلب در پمپاژ خون به طور مؤثر از طریق ریه‌ها با مشکل مواجه می‌شود که می‌تواند به علائم نارسایی قلبی منجر شده و نیاز به مداخله پزشکی پیدا کند.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تنگی نفس: بیماران ممکن است در هنگام فعالیت‌های بدنی به‌طور خاص با مشکل تنفس مواجه شوند به دلیل کاهش تأمین اکسیژن.",
      "خستگی: خستگی مزمن ممکن است به دلیل کاهش خروجی قلب و هیپوکسی مداوم ایجاد شود.",
      "سیانوز: ممکن است رنگ لب‌ها یا پوست به رنگ آبی متمایل شود که نشان‌دهنده سطوح پایین اکسیژن در خون است.",
      "ورم در پاها و مچ‌ها: ادم می‌تواند به دلیل تجمع مایع به علت نارسایی قلبی توسعه یابد.",
      "ضربان نامنظم قلب: بیماران ممکن است ضربان‌های نامنظم یا احساس تند شدن قلب را متوجه شوند.",
      "ناراحتی قفسه سینه: برخی ممکن است درد یا فشار در ناحیه قفسه سینه را تجربه کنند که البته این کمتر شایع است."
    ],
    "treatments": "مدیریت کور پلموناله بر روی درمان علت زمینه‌ای و کاهش علائم تمرکز دارد. این ممکن است شامل: \n- تجویز درمان با اکسیژن برای بهبود اکسیژن‌ رسانی در بیماران مبتلا به هیپوکسی.\n- ممکن است دیورتیک‌ها برای کاهش بار مایع و ورم تجویز شوند که به عملکرد قلب کمک می‌کند. \n- ممکن است واسودیلاتورها به کاهش فشار شریان ریوی و کاهش بار کاری سمت راست قلب کمک کنند. \n- در برخی بیماران، درمان ضدانعقادی برای جلوگیری از لخته‌ها که می‌تواند به قلب فشار بیشتری وارد کنند، لازم است.\n- اگر بیماری مزمن انسدادی ریه یا بیماری ریوی دیگری علت زمینه‌ای باشد، درمان‌ها ممکن است شامل بازکننده‌های مجاری تنفسی و کورتیکواستروئیدها برای بهبود عملکرد ریه باشد. \n- در موارد شدید، درمان‌های پیشرفته مانند توانبخشی ریوی یا روش‌های جراحی مانند پیوند ریه می‌تواند گزینه‌هایی باشد."
  }
}