{
  "en": {
    "description": "Dilated cardiomyopathy is a condition characterized by the enlargement and thinning of the heart's walls, which leads to a reduced ability of the heart to pump blood effectively. This condition can result from various factors such as genetic predisposition, viral infections, alcohol abuse, and certain medications. Symptoms often progressively worsen, and it can lead to heart failure and other complications if not managed properly.",
    "symptoms": {
      "Shortness of breath": "Patients often experience difficulty breathing, especially during physical activity or when lying flat, due to fluid accumulation in the lungs.",
      "Fatigue": "General fatigue or feeling weak is common as the heart struggles to circulate blood effectively.",
      "Swelling": "Swelling in the legs, ankles, or abdomen may occur due to fluid retention as the heart's pumping ability declines.",
      "Palpitations": "Individuals may experience irregular heartbeats or a sensation of fluttering in the chest as the heart tries to compensate for its weakened state.",
      "Chest pain or discomfort": "Some patients report chest pain or discomfort, which can be due to reduced oxygen supply to the heart muscles."
    },
    "treatments": "Treatment for dilated cardiomyopathy often involves a combination of lifestyle changes, medications, and sometimes medical devices or surgery. Lifestyle changes may include adopting a heart-healthy diet, engaging in regular physical activity, avoiding alcohol and illicit drugs, and quitting smoking. Medications used may include ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers, diuretics, and anticoagulants to manage symptoms and prevent complications. In more severe cases, patients may require implantable devices such as a defibrillator or may need a heart transplant."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "کاردیومیوپاتی گشاد شده حالتی است که با بزرگ شدن و نازک شدن دیواره‌های قلب مشخص می‌شود و به این دلیل، توانایی پمپاژ موثر خون توسط قلب کاهش می‌یابد. این بیماری ممکن است ناشی از عوامل مختلفی همچون زمینه ژنتیکی، عفونت‌های ویروسی، سوء مصرف الکل و برخی از داروها باشد. علائم معمولاً به تدریج بدتر می‌شوند و در صورت عدم مدیریت مناسب، می‌تواند به نارسایی قلبی و عوارض دیگر منجر شود.",
    "symptoms": {
      "تنگی نفس": "بیماران معمولاً هنگام فعالیت بدنی یا دراز کشیدن به شدت دچار تنگی نفس می‌شوند که به دلیل تجمع مایع در ریه‌ها است.",
      "خستگی": "حس کلی خستگی یا ضعف شایع است زیرا قلب برای به گردش درآوردن خون تلاش می‌کند.",
      "تورم": "تورم در پاها، مچ‌ها یا شکم ممکن است به دلیل احتباس مایع ایجاد شود و با کاهش توانایی پمپ قلب رخ دهد.",
      "تپش قلب": "افراد ممکن است تپش نامنظم قلب یا احساس لرزیدن در قفسه سینه را تجربه کنند زیرا قلب برای جبران ضعف خود تلاش می‌کند.",
      "درد یا ناراحتی در قفسه سینه": "برخی بیماران درد یا ناراحتی در قفسه سینه را گزارش می‌کنند که می‌تواند ناشی از کاهش تأمین اکسیژن به بافت‌های قلب باشد."
    },
    "treatments": "درمان کاردیومیوپاتی گشاد شده غالباً شامل ترکیبی از تغییرات شیوه زندگی، داروها و گاهی اوقات دستگاه‌های پزشکی یا جراحی است. تغییرات شیوه زندگی می‌تواند شامل اتخاذ یک رژیم غذایی سالم برای قلب، فعالیت بدنی منظم، اجتناب از الکل و مواد مخدر و ترک سیگار باشد. داروهای استفاده شده ممکن است شامل مهارکننده‌های ACE، بتا بلاکرها، دیورتیک‌ها و آنتی‌کواگولانت‌ها برای مدیریت علائم و پیشگیری از عوارض باشند. در موارد شدیدتر، بیماران ممکن است نیاز به دستگاه‌های ایمپلنتی مانند دفیبریلاتور داشته باشند یا ممکن است به پیوند قلب نیاز پیدا کنند."
  }
}