{
  "en": {
    "description": "Infective endocarditis is a serious infection of the inner lining of the heart chambers and valves, often caused by bacteria entering the bloodstream and attaching to damaged areas of the heart. This condition can lead to severe complications such as heart failure, embolism, and stroke if not diagnosed and treated promptly.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Fever: A persistent elevated body temperature commonly occurs in patients, often accompanied by chills.",
      "Murmurs: Abnormal heart sounds may develop due to valve involvement.",
      "Fatigue: Patients may experience an unusual sense of tiredness and weakness.",
      "Night sweats: Excessive sweating at night is a common complaint.",
      "Shortness of breath: Difficulty breathing, particularly during physical activity.",
      "Petechiae: Small, red or purple spots can appear on the skin, often indicating emboli.",
      "Joint pain: Discomfort or inflammation in the joints may occur.",
      "Swelling: Swelling in the legs, abdomen, or feet, potentially due to fluid buildup."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for infective endocarditis primarily involves prolonged courses of intravenous antibiotics to eliminate the infection. The choice of antibiotics depends on the type of bacteria identified and their sensitivities. In cases where valve damage is significant or there is a risk of embolism, surgical intervention may be necessary to repair or replace damaged heart valves. Additionally, patients may require supportive care for symptoms such as heart failure or arrhythmias, and close monitoring may be necessary to assess recovery and prevent complications."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "اندوکاردیت عفونی یک عفونت جدی از لایه داخلی حفره‌ها و دریچه‌های قلب است که معمولاً ناشی از ورود باکتری‌ها به جریان خون و چسبیدن به نواحی آسیب‌دیده قلب می‌باشد. این وضعیت می‌تواند در صورت عدم تشخیص و درمان به موقع، منجر به عوارض شدید مانند نارسایی قلبی، آمبولی و سکته مغزی شود.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تب: افزایش مداوم دما بدن معمولاً در بیماران مشاهده می‌شود که گاهی با لرز همراه است.",
      "صداهای غیرطبیعی قلب: در نتیجه درگیری دریچه‌ها ممکن است صداهای غیرعادی قلبی ایجاد شود.",
      "خستگی: بیماران ممکن است حس غیرعادی خستگی و ضعف را تجربه کنند.",
      "عرق شبانه: عرق‌کردن بیش از حد در شب شکایت رایجی است.",
      "تنگی نفس: مشکل در تنفس به ویژه در حین فعالیت بدنی.",
      "پتشی: لکه‌های کوچک قرمز یا بنفش ممکن است بر روی پوست ظاهر شوند که معمولاً نشان‌دهنده وجود آمبولی است.",
      "درد مفاصل: ناراحتی یا التهاب در مفاصل ممکن است رخ دهد.",
      "تورم: تورم در پاها، شکم یا پاها، به ویژه به دلیل تجمع مایع."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان اندوکاردیت عفونی عمدتاً شامل دوره‌های طولانی آنتی‌بیوتیک‌های داخل وریدی برای حذف عفونت است. انتخاب آنتی‌بیوتیک‌ها به نوع باکتری شناسایی شده و حساسیت‌های آن‌ها بستگی دارد. در مواردی که آسیب به دریچه‌ها شدید باشد یا خطر آمبولی وجود داشته باشد، ممکن است مداخله جراحی لازم باشد تا دریچه‌های قلب آسیب‌دیده تعمیر یا تعویض شوند. علاوه بر این، ممکن است بیماران به مراقبت‌های حمایتی برای علائم مثل نارسایی قلبی یا آریتمی‌ها نیاز داشته باشند و نظارت دقیق برای ارزیابی بهبودی و پیشگیری از عوارض ضروری است."
  }
}