{
  "en": {
    "description": "Kawasaki Disease is an acute, self-limiting vasculitis primarily affecting children under the age of five. It is characterized by inflammation of medium-sized blood vessels, particularly the coronary arteries, which can lead to serious cardiovascular complications if not treated promptly. The exact cause is unknown, but it is believed to have an infectious or autoimmune trigger. The disease commonly presents with a prolonged fever, skin rash, and mucosal changes, among other signs, necessitating early diagnosis and intervention.",
    "symptoms": {
      "prolonged fever": "A persistent fever lasting more than five days that is often high and unresponsive to typical antipyretics.",
      "rash": "A widespread rash that may present in various forms, including maculopapular lesions or desquamation, particularly in the groin area.",
      "conjunctivitis": "Nonpurulent conjunctivitis characterized by redness and inflammation of the eyes without any discharge.",
      "oral changes": "Mucosal changes including dry, cracked lips, a 'strawberry tongue' with red, swollen papillae, and oral cavity inflammation.",
      "swollen lymph nodes": "Lymphadenopathy, particularly cervical lymph nodes, which may be enlarged and tender.",
      "hand and foot changes": "Swelling and redness of the palms and soles, often accompanied by desquamation (peeling of skin) during the later stages of the illness.",
      "irritability": "In young children, irritability may be noted as they often appear uncomfortable and fussy due to fever and illness."
    },
    "treatments": "The primary treatment for Kawasaki Disease involves intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) therapy, which is administered to reduce inflammation and the risk of coronary artery damage. High-dose aspirin is also commonly used to manage fever and inflammation, followed by a lower maintenance dose for its antiplatelet effects. In cases where coronary artery involvement is detected, additional treatments such as corticosteroids may be considered. Close monitoring with echocardiograms is essential to assess cardiac involvement. If complications arise, further intervention may be necessary, including anticoagulation therapy or surgical interventions for affected coronary arteries."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "بیماری کاواساکی یک واسکولیت حاد و خودمحدودکننده است که عمدتاً کودکان زیر پنج سال را تحت تأثیر قرار می‌دهد. این بیماری با التهاب عروق خونی با اندازه متوسط، به ویژه شریان‌های کرونری، مشخص می‌شود که در صورت عدم درمان به موقع می‌تواند منجر به عوارض جدی قلبی عروقی شود. علت دقیق آن ناشناخته است، اما به‌نظر می‌رسد که یک عامل عفونی یا خودایمنی محرک آن باشد. این بیماری معمولاً با تب طولانی‌مدت، راش‌های پوستی و تغییرات مخاطی همراه است و لازم است تشخیص و مداخله زودهنگام صورت گیرد.",
    "symptoms": {
      "تب طولانی": "تب مداوم که بیش از پنج روز طول می‌کشد و معمولاً شدید و غیرقابل پاسخ به داروهای تب‌بر معمولی است.",
      "راش": "راشی گسترده که می‌تواند به اشکال مختلفی از جمله ضایعات ماکولاپاپولار یا پوسته‌ریزی، به‌ویژه در ناحیه کشاله ران ظاهر شود.",
      "التهاب ملتحمه": "التهاب غیرپوری ملتحمه که با قرمزی و التهاب چشم‌ها همراه است و هیچ ترشحی ندارد.",
      "تغییرات دهانی": "تغییرات مخاطی شامل لب‌های خشک و ترک‌خورده، زبان توت‌فرنگی با پاپیلاهای قرمز و متورم و التهاب در حفره دهان.",
      "تورم غدد لنفاوی": "بزرگ شدن غدد لنفاوی، به‌ویژه غدد لنفاوی گردنی که ممکن است بزرگ و حساس باشند.",
      "تغییرات دست‌ها و پاها": "تورم و قرمزی در کف دست‌ها و پاها که غالباً با پوسته‌ریزی همراه است (ریزش پوست) در مراحل بعدی بیماری.",
      "بدخلق بودن": "در کودکان کوچک‌تر، بی‌تابی ممکن است قابل مشاهده باشد زیرا آن‌ها به‌علت تب و بیماری اغلب احساس ناراحتی و بی‌قراری می‌کنند."
    },
    "treatments": "درمان اصلی بیماری کاواساکی شامل درمان با ایمونوگلوبولین داخل وریدی (IVIG) است که برای کاهش التهاب و کاهش خطر آسیب به شریان‌های کرونری تجویز می‌شود. همچنین آسپرین با دوز بالا معمولاً برای مدیریت تب و التهاب استفاده می‌شود و پس از آن دوز نگهدارنده کمتری برای اثرات ضدپلاکتی خود تجویز می‌گردد. در مواردی که درگیری عروق کرونر شناسایی شود، ممکن است درمان‌های اضافی مانند کورتیکواستروئیدها مورد نظر قرار گیرد. پایش نزدیک با اکوکاردیوگرافی برای ارزیابی درگیری قلبی ضروری است. اگر عوارضی بروز کند، ممکن است مداخلات بیشتری لازم باشد، از جمله درمان ضد انعقادی یا مداخلات جراحی برای شریان‌های کرونر آسیب‌دیده."
  }
}