{
  "en": {
    "description": "Marfan Syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects the body's connective tissue, leading to abnormalities in the skeleton, heart, and blood vessels. It is caused by mutations in the FBN1 gene, which encodes the protein fibrillin-1, essential for the strength and elasticity of connective tissues. Individuals with Marfan Syndrome are usually tall and slender, with long limbs and fingers, and they may experience a range of health issues, particularly in cardiovascular health, as well as skeletal and ocular problems.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Tall and slender stature: Many individuals with Marfan Syndrome are notably taller than their peers, often exhibiting long limbs and fingers.",
      "Skeletal abnormalities: These may include a curved spine (scoliosis), chest wall deformities (pectus excavatum or carinatum), and flat feet.",
      "Eye problems: Common issues include dislocation of the lens (ectopia lentis), nearsightedness (myopia), and an increased risk of retinal detachment.",
      "Cardiovascular complications: The most serious complication is dilation or rupture of the aorta, which can be life-threatening, along with other heart valve issues.",
      "Joint flexibility: Individuals may have hypermobile joints, making them more prone to injuries."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for Marfan Syndrome focuses on managing symptoms and reducing complications. Regular monitoring by a healthcare provider is essential, especially for cardiovascular health. Medications such as beta-blockers or angiotensin receptor blockers may be prescribed to help reduce stress on the aorta and lower blood pressure. Surgical interventions might be necessary for severe cardiovascular issues, such as repairing a dilated aorta or replacing a faulty heart valve. Orthopedic treatments like bracing or surgery may be needed to correct skeletal deformities. Eye care often involves regular screenings and, if required, corrective surgery for lens dislocation or other ocular complications."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "سندرم مارفان یک اختلال ژنتیکی است که بر بافت همبند بدن تأثیر می‌گذارد و منجر به ناهنجاری‌هایی در اسکلت، قلب و عروق خونی می‌شود. این بیماری ناشی از جهش در ژن FBN1 است که پروتئین فیبرین (فبیرین-۱) را کدگذاری می‌کند که برای استحکام و کشسانی بافت همبند ضروری است. افراد مبتلا به سندرم مارفان معمولاً قد بلند و لاغر با اندام‌ها و انگشتان بلند هستند و ممکن است با طیف گسترده‌ای از مشکلات بهداشتی، به ویژه در سلامت قلبی عروقی، همچنین مشکلات اسکلتی و چشمی مواجه شوند.",
    "symptoms": [
      "قد و اندام لاغر: بسیاری از افراد مبتلا به سندرم مارفان از همسالان خود بلندتر هستند و اغلب اندام‌ها و انگشتان بلند دارند.",
      "ناهنجاری‌های اسکلتی: این موارد می‌تواند شامل انحنای ستون فقرات (اسکولیوز)، ناهنجاری‌های دیواره قفسه سینه (پکتوس اکسکاواتوم یا کاریناتوم) و پاهای صاف باشد.",
      "مشکلات چشمی: مشکلات شایع شامل دررفتگی لنز (اکتاپیا لنسیس)، نزدیک بینی (میوپیا) و افزایش خطر جداشدگی شبکیه است.",
      "عوارض قلبی عروقی: جدی‌ترین عارضه، اتساع یا پارگی آئورت است که می‌تواند تهدید کننده زندگی باشد و همچنین سایر مشکلات دریچه قلب.",
      "انعطاف پذیری مفاصل: افراد ممکن است مفاصل فوق‌العاده منعطفی داشته باشند که بیشتر در معرض آسیب‌های ورزشی قرار می‌گیرند."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان سندرم مارفان بر مدیریت علائم و کاهش عوارض تمرکز دارد. پایش منظم توسط یک ارائه‌دهنده خدمات بهداشتی ضروری است، به ویژه برای سلامت قلبی-عروقی. داروهایی مانند بتا بلاکرها یا مسدود کننده‌های گیرنده آنژیوتانسین می‌توانند برای کمک به کاهش استرس بر روی آئورت و پایین آوردن فشار خون تجویز شوند. مداخلات جراحی ممکن است برای مشکلات قلبی عروقی شدید، مانند ترمیم آئورت منبسط شده یا تعویض یک دریچه قلب معیوب لازم باشد. درمان‌های ارتوپدی مانند بریس یا جراحی ممکن است برای اصلاح ناهنجاری‌های اسکلتی مورد نیاز باشد. مراقبت از چشم اغلب شامل غربالگری منظم و، در صورت لزوم، جراحی ترمیمی برای دررفتگی لنز یا سایر عوارض چشمی است."
  }
}