{
  "en": {
    "description": "Pulmonary Atresia is a congenital heart defect characterized by the absence of the pulmonary valve, which obstructs blood flow from the right ventricle to the lungs for oxygenation. This condition results in serious complications if not promptly treated, as it can lead to inadequate oxygen supply to the body. Affected infants often present with various symptoms and require immediate medical attention to improve heart function and ensure survival.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Cyanosis: A bluish tint to the skin, lips, and nails, indicating low oxygen levels in the blood.",
      "Rapid breathing: Increased respiratory rate as the body attempts to compensate for inadequate oxygen supply.",
      "Weak pulse: A weaker than normal pulse can indicate poor blood circulation.",
      "Poor feeding: Infants may struggle to feed due to fatigue and difficulty breathing.",
      "Fatigue: Unusual tiredness or lethargy during feeding or activity can be a sign of reduced oxygen availability."
    ],
    "treatments": "The treatment for Pulmonary Atresia typically includes immediate interventions such as medications to stabilize the infant and possibly the use of prostaglandins to keep the ductus arteriosus open, allowing blood to flow to the lungs. Surgical options may involve procedures to create a pathway for blood flow to the lungs, such as a shunt placement or a more definitive repair procedure, depending on the individual case. Ongoing follow-up with cardiology is essential to monitor the child's heart function and address any potential complications."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "آتروزی ریه یک نقص مادرزادی قلب است که با عدم وجود دریچه ریوی مشخص می‌شود و جریان خون از بطن راست به ریه‌ها برای اکسیژن‌گیری را مسدود می‌کند. این وضعیت اگر به موقع درمان نشود، می‌تواند منجر به عوارض جدی شود، زیرا می‌تواند موجب تأمین ناکافی اکسیژن به بدن گردد. نوزادان مبتلا معمولاً با علائم مختلفی ارائه می‌شوند و نیاز به مراقبت‌های پزشکی فوری دارند تا عملکرد قلب بهبود یابد و بقا حفظ شود.",
    "symptoms": [
      "سیانوز: رنگ آبی پوست، لب‌ها و ناخن‌ها که نشان‌دهنده سطوح پایین اکسیژن در خون است.",
      "تنفس سریع: افزایش نرخ تنفس به‌عنوان جبران کمبود اکسیژن.",
      "پالس ضعیف: پالس ضعیف‌تر از حد معمول می‌تواند نشان‌دهنده گردش خون ضعیف باشد.",
      "تغذیه نامناسب: نوزادان ممکن است به دلیل خستگی و دشواری در تنفس، در تغذیه مشکل داشته باشند.",
      "خستگی: خستگی یا بی‌حالی غیرعادی در حین تغذیه یا فعالیت می‌تواند نشانه‌ای از کمبود اکسیژن باشد."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان آتروزی ریه معمولاً شامل مداخلات فوری مانند داروهایی برای پایدار کردن نوزاد و احتمالاً استفاده از پروستاگلندین‌ها برای باز نگه‌داشتن داکتوس آرتریوزوس است که به خون اجازه می‌دهد به ریه‌ها برسد. گزینه‌های جراحی ممکن است شامل انجام اقداماتی برای ایجاد یک مسیر برای جریان خون به ریه‌ها، مانند قرار دادن شانت یا انجام یک عمل تعمیر قطعی‌تر باشد که بستگی به مورد خاص دارد. پیگیری مداوم با بخش قلب برای نظارت بر عملکرد قلب کودک و رسیدگی به هرگونه عارضه بالقوه الزامی است."
  }
}