{
  "en": {
    "description": "Restrictive Cardiomyopathy is a type of heart disease characterized by the stiffening of the heart walls, which limits the heart's ability to properly fill with blood during the diastole phase. This condition is often the result of other diseases that cause abnormal deposits in the heart, leading to compromised cardiac function, heart failure symptoms, and potentially arrhythmias. Patients may experience progressive normal symptoms related to heart failure, as the heart struggles to maintain adequate blood flow throughout the body.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Shortness of Breath: Many patients experience difficulty breathing, especially during physical activity or while lying down.",
      "Fatigue: A general feeling of tiredness and lack of energy due to decreased cardiac output.",
      "Swelling: Edema may occur in the legs, ankles, and abdomen due to fluid retention.",
      "Heart Palpitations: Patients may feel irregular heartbeats or a sense of pounding in the chest.",
      "Chest Pain: Some individuals report discomfort or pain in the chest, sometimes mimicking angina."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment of restrictive cardiomyopathy primarily focuses on managing symptoms and underlying causes. Medications may include diuretics to reduce fluid buildup, beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers to improve heart function, and ACE inhibitors to lower blood pressure and lessen workload on the heart. It is essential for patients to adopt lifestyle changes, such as a low-sodium diet and regular, light exercise, to manage symptoms. In severe cases, more invasive procedures may be necessary, including heart transplant if the heart function deteriorates significantly."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "کاردیومیوپاتی محدود کننده نوعی بیماری قلبی است که با سفت شدن دیواره‌های قلب مشخص می‌شود و این امر باعث محدودیت در پر شدن قلب با خون در فاز دیاستول می‌شود. این وضعیت غالباً ناشی از بیماری‌های دیگر است که باعث رسوب غیرطبیعی در قلب می‌شود و منجر به اختلال در عملکرد قلب، بروز علائم نارسایی قلبی و احتمالاً آریتمی‌ها می‌شود. بیماران ممکن است علائم پیشرفته‌ای مرتبط با نارسایی قلبی تجربه کنند، زیرا قلب در حفظ جریان خون کافی در سراسر بدن با مشکل مواجه است.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تنگی نفس: بسیاری از بیماران در هنگام فعالیت بدنی یا دراز کشیدن دچار مشکل در تنفس می‌شوند.",
      "خستگی: احساس کلی خستگی و کمبود انرژی به دلیل کاهش کارآیی قلب.",
      "تورم: ادم ممکن است در پاها، مچ پا و شکم به علت احتباس مایع رخ دهد.",
      "تپش قلب: بیماران ممکن است احساس ضربان نامنظم قلب یا حس کوبیدن در سینه داشته باشند.",
      "درد قفسه سینه: برخی افراد ممکن است احساس ناراحتی یا درد در قفسه سینه، کهگاهی شبیه آنژین است، گزارش دهند."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان کاردیومیوپاتی محدود کننده به‌طور عمده بر مدیریت علائم و علل زمینه‌ای متمرکز است. داروها ممکن است شامل مدرها برای کاهش احتباس مایع، بتابلاکرها یا مسدودکننده‌های کانال کلسیم برای بهبود عملکرد قلب و مهارکننده‌های ACE برای کاهش فشار خون و کاهش بار قلب باشد. بیماران باید تغییرات در شیوه زندگی را برای مدیریت علائم خود، مانند رژیم غذایی کم‌نمک و ورزش منظم و سبک، اتخاذ کنند. در موارد شدیدتر، ممکن است نیاز به روش‌های تهاجمی‌تر از جمله پیوند قلب وجود داشته باشد، اگر عملکرد قلب به طور قابل‌توجهی کاهش یابد."
  }
}