{
  "en": {
    "description": "Rheumatic Heart Disease is a serious condition that occurs when the heart is damaged by rheumatic fever, a complication that can arise from untreated strep throat or scarlet fever. It primarily affects the heart valves, leading to inflammation, stenosis, or regurgitation, which can severely impair heart function. The condition can develop years after an initial streptococcal infection and may result in chronic heart issues, thereby necessitating lifelong monitoring and management.",
    "symptoms": [
      "Shortness of breath: Patients may experience difficulty in breathing, especially during physical activities or when lying flat.",
      "Chest pain: This may occur due to inflammation or the resulting stress on the heart, manifesting as angina or pressure in the chest.",
      "Fatigue: Chronic tiredness is common due to the heart's reduced efficiency in pumping blood.",
      "Swelling: Edema, especially in the legs, ankles, and abdomen, can indicate fluid retention due to heart dysfunction.",
      "Palpitations: Patients may feel rapid or irregular heartbeats, which can indicate a problem with the heart's electrical system.",
      "Fever: A low-grade fever can occur as an inflammatory response, often in association with other symptoms.",
      "Joint pain: Patients may also experience pain in the joints, particularly in the wrists, knees, and elbows, due to the systemic effects of rheumatic fever."
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for Rheumatic Heart Disease focuses on managing symptoms, preventing further heart damage, and addressing the underlying causes. Key treatments may include:\n\n1. Antibiotics: To prevent future strep infections, patients may be prescribed antibiotics like penicillin, possibly on a long-term basis.\n\n2. Anti-inflammatory medications: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can help alleviate inflammation and pain associated with the condition.\n\n3. Corticosteroids: In more severe cases, corticosteroids may be used to reduce inflammation in the heart, especially if there are significant symptoms.\n\n4. Diuretics: These medications can help to relieve fluid overload and swelling by promoting urination.\n\n5. Heart valve repair or replacement: For patients with significant valve damage, surgical intervention may be necessary to repair or replace the affected heart valve.\n\n6. Regular monitoring: Periodic echocardiograms and check-ups are crucial to monitor heart function and any progression of the disease. \n\n7. Lifestyle modifications: Patients may be advised to maintain a heart-healthy lifestyle, including dietary changes, regular exercise, and quitting smoking."
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "بیماری قلب روماتیسمی یک وضعیت جدی است که زمانی رخ می‌دهد که قلب به سبب تب روماتیسمی آسیب ببیند، عارضه‌ای که می‌تواند از گلودرد استرپتوککی یا تب اسکارلت درمان‌نشده نشأت گیرد. این بیماری عمدتاً بر روی دریچه‌های قلب تأثیر می‌گذارد و منجر به التهاب، تنگی یا ریفلاکس می‌شود که می‌تواند به شدت عملکرد قلب را مختل کند. این وضعیت ممکن است سال‌ها بعد از عفونت استرپتوککی اولیه توسعه یابد و ممکن است منجر به مشکلات قلبی مزمن شود، به همین دلیل نیاز به نظارت و مدیریت مادام‌العمر دارد.",
    "symptoms": [
      "تنگی نفس: بیماران ممکن است در تنفس مشکل داشته باشند، به‌ویژه در حین فعالیت‌های بدنی یا دراز کشیدن.",
      "درد قفسه سینه: این درد به دلیل التهاب یا استرس ناشی از آسیب به قلب می‌تواند احساس فشار در قفسه سینه باشد.",
      "خستگی: خستگی مزمن شایع است به دلیل کارایی کاهش‌یافته قلب در پمپاژ خون.",
      "تورم: ادم، به‌ویژه در پاها، مچ پاها و شکم، می‌تواند نشان‌دهنده احتباس مایعات ناشی از اختلال قلب باشد.",
      "تپش قلب: بیماران ممکن است تپش قلب سریع یا نامنظم احساس کنند که می‌تواند نشان‌دهنده مشکل در سیستم الکتریکی قلب باشد.",
      "تب: تب خفیف ممکن است به‌عنوان پاسخ التهابی، معمولاً در ارتباط با سایر علائم، رخ دهد.",
      "درد مفاصل: بیماران ممکن است همچنین در مفاصل، به‌ویژه در مچ‌ها، زانوها و آرنج‌ها درد را تجربه کنند به دلیل اثرات سیستمیک تب روماتیسمی."
    ],
    "treatments": "درمان بیماری قلب روماتیسمی بر مدیریت علائم، جلوگیری از آسیب بیشتر به قلب و رسیدگی به causas اصلی متمرکز است. درمان‌های کلیدی شامل:\n\n1. آنتی‌بیوتیک‌ها: برای جلوگیری از عفونت‌های استرپتی، ممکن است آنتی‌بیوتیک‌هایی مانند پنی‌سیلین تجویز شود که احتمالاً به صورت بلندمدت خواهد بود.\n\n2. داروهای ضدالتهاب: داروهای ضدالتهابی غیراستروئیدی (NSAIDs) می‌توانند به کاهش التهاب و درد مرتبط با این وضعیت کمک کنند.\n\n3. کورتیکواستروئیدها: در موارد شدیدتر، ممکن است از کورتیکواستروئیدها برای کاهش التهاب در قلب استفاده شود، به‌ویژه اگر علائم قابل توجهی وجود داشته باشد.\n\n4. دیورتیک‌ها: این داروها می‌توانند به کاهش اضافی مایعات و تورم با تسهیل ادرار کمک کنند.\n\n5. ترمیم یا تعویض دریچه قلب: برای بیماران با آسیب دریچه‌ای قابل توجه، ممکن است مداخله جراحی لازم باشد تا دریچه آسیب‌دیده قلب ترمیم یا تعویض شود.\n\n6. نظارت منظم: انجام دوره‌ای اکوکاردیوگرام‌ها و معاینات ضروری برای پایش عملکرد قلب و هرگونه پیشرفت بیماری است.\n\n7. تغییرات سبک زندگی: ممکن است به بیماران توصیه شود سبک زندگی سالم قلبی را حفظ کنند، از جمله تغییرات غذایی، ورزش منظم و ترک سیگار."
  }
}