{
 "en": {
    "description": "Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome is a congenital condition characterized by an extra electrical pathway in the heart, which can lead to episodes of rapid heartbeat (tachycardia). Typically, this extra pathway can cause the heart's electrical signals to bypass the normal route, resulting in a rapid and potentially dangerous heartbeat. While many individuals with WPW may be asymptomatic, the condition can sometimes result in serious arrhythmias, particularly paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT).",
    "symptoms": [
      {"symptom": "Rapid heartbeat (tachycardia)", "description": "Episodes of fast heart rates that may begin and end abruptly."},
      {"symptom": "Palpitations", "description": "An uncomfortable sensation of the heart fluttering or pounding."},
      {"symptom": "Dizziness or lightheadedness", "description": "Feeling faint or fainting due to decreased blood flow."},
      {"symptom": "Shortness of breath", "description": "A feeling of not getting enough air or difficulty breathing."},
      {"symptom": "Chest pain or discomfort", "description": "Pain or discomfort that may arise during tachycardia episodes."},
      {"symptom": "Fatigue", "description": "Persistent tiredness that may result from repeated episodes of tachycardia."}
    ],
    "treatments": "Treatment for Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome often depends on the frequency and severity of symptoms. For those with infrequent episodes, a watchful waiting approach may be sufficient. In cases where symptoms are frequent or severe, medications such as beta-blockers or anti-arrhythmic drugs may be prescribed to help control heart rate and rhythm. However, catheter ablation is considered the most effective long-term treatment. During this procedure, a thin tube is inserted into a vein and guided to the heart, where the abnormal electrical pathway is located. The targeted area is then destroyed using radiofrequency energy, successfully preventing recurrent episodes of tachycardia. Lifestyle modifications, including avoiding caffeine and stress management, may also play a supportive role in treatment."
 },
 "fa": {
     "description": "سندرم ولف-پارکینسون-وایت (WPW) یک وضعیت مادرزادی است که با وجود یک مسیر الکتریکی اضافی در قلب مشخص می‌شود و می‌تواند منجر به حملات ضربان قلب سریع (تاکی‌کاردی) شود. این مسیر اضافی می‌تواند باعث شود سیگنال‌های الکتریکی قلب از مسیر طبیعی خود دور شوند و منجر به ضربان قلب سریع و بالقوه خطرناکی شود. در حالی که بسیاری از افراد مبتلا به WPW ممکن است بدون علامت باشند، این وضعیت گاهی می‌تواند منجر به آریتمی‌های جدی، به ویژه تاکی‌کاردی فوق‌بطنی پاروکسیسمال (PSVT) شود.",
     "symptoms": [
       {"symptom": "ضربان سریع قلب (تاکی‌کاردی)", "description": "حملاتی از ضربان سریع قلب که ممکن است ناگهان آغاز و پایان یابد."},
       {"symptom": "تپش قلب", "description": "احساس ناراحت‌کننده‌ای از لرزش یا کوبیدن قلب."},
       {"symptom": "سرگیجه یا سبکی سر", "description": "احساس ضعف یا غش به دلیل کاهش جریان خون."},
       {"symptom": "تنگی نفس", "description": "احساس عدم رسیدن به هوای کافی یا دشواری در نفس کشیدن."},
       {"symptom": "درد یا ناراحتی در قفسه سینه", "description": "درد یا ناراحتی که ممکن است در هنگام حملات تاکی‌کاردی رخ دهد."},
       {"symptom": "خستگی", "description": "خستگی مداوم که ممکن است ناشی از حملات مکرر تاکی‌کاردی باشد."}
     ],
     "treatments": "درمان برای سندرم ولف-پارکینسون-وایت معمولاً به فراوانی و شدت علائم بستگی دارد. برای افرادی که به ندرت حملات را تجربه می‌کنند، رویکرد مراقبتی ممکن است کافی باشد. در مواردی که علائم مکرر یا شدید باشند، داروهایی مانند بتابلاکرها یا داروهای ضد آریتمی ممکن است تجویز شوند تا به کنترل ضربان و ریتم قلب کمک کنند. با این حال، ابلیشن کاتتری (کاتتر درمانی) به عنوان موثرترین درمان درازمدت در نظر گرفته می‌شود. در طی این روش، یک لوله نازک به داخل یک ورید وارد می‌شود و به قلب هدایت می‌شود، جایی که مسیر الکتریکی غیرطبیعی قرار دارد. سپس ناحیه هدف به کمک انرژی رادیوفرکانسی تخریب می‌شود تا از وقوع حملات مکرر تاکی‌کاردی جلوگیری شود. تغییرات سبک زندگی، از جمله اجتناب از کافئین و مدیریت استرس، نیز ممکن است نقش حمایتی در درمان ایفا کند."
 }
}