{
 "en": {
    "description": "Candesartan is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist used primarily in the management of hypertension (high blood pressure) and heart failure. It works by blocking the action of angiotensin II, a substance in the body that causes blood vessels to constrict, thereby helping to widen blood vessels and lower blood pressure. Candesartan is often prescribed as part of a comprehensive treatment plan to reduce the risk of cardiovascular issues by improving heart function and decreasing the strain on the heart.",
    "uses": "Candesartan is mainly used to treat high blood pressure in adults and children. It can also be prescribed to manage heart failure, particularly in patients who have previously been treated with other medications but need further improvement in heart function. Additionally, this medication may be utilized to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in patients with conditions such as left ventricular dysfunction after a heart attack.",
    "side effects": [
      "Dizziness - a feeling of lightheadedness or vertigo that can occur when standing up quickly.",
      "Fatigue - a sense of tiredness or lack of energy that can be persistent.",
      "Headache - pain or discomfort in the head area, which can range from mild to severe.",
      "Hypotension - abnormally low blood pressure, which may lead to fainting or dizziness.",
      "Nausea - a feeling of sickness or the urge to vomit."
    ]
 },
 "fa": {
     "description": "کانده‌سارتان یک آنتاگونیست گیرنده آنژیوتانسین II است که عمدتاً برای مدیریت فشار خون بالا و نارسایی قلبی مورد استفاده قرار می‌گیرد. این دارو با مسدود کردن اثر آنژیوتانسین II که ماده‌ای در بدن است که باعث تنگ شدن رگ‌های خونی می‌شود، عمل می‌کند و در نتیجه به گشاد شدن رگ‌ها و کاهش فشار خون کمک می‌کند. کانده‌سارتان معمولاً به عنوان بخشی از یک برنامه درمانی جامع برای کاهش خطر مشکلات قلبی عروقی تجویز می‌شود.",
     "uses": "کانده‌سارتان عمدتاً برای درمان فشار خون بالا در بزرگسالان و کودکان استفاده می‌شود. همچنین می‌تواند برای مدیریت نارسایی قلبی تجویز شود، به ویژه در بیمارانی که قبلاً با داروهای دیگر تحت درمان قرار گرفته‌اند اما نیاز به بهبود بیشتر در عملکرد قلب دارند. علاوه بر این، این دارو ممکن است برای کاهش خطر وقوع حوادث قلبی عروقی در بیماران با شرایطی مانند اختلال عملکرد بطن چپ پس از حمله قلبی استفاده شود.",
     "side effects": [
      "سرگیجه - احساسی از سبکی سر یا سرگیجه که ممکن است هنگام ایستادن ناگهانی رخ دهد.",
      "خستگی - احساسی از خستگی یا نداشتن انرژی که ممکن است پایدار باشد.",
      "سردرد - درد یا ناراحتی در ناحیه سر که می‌تواند از خفیف تا شدید باشد.",
      "افت فشار خون - فشار خون غیر طبیعی پایین که ممکن است باعث غش یا سرگیجه شود.",
      "تهوع - احساسی از بیماری یا تمایل به استفراغ."
    ]
 }
}