{
  "en": {
    "description": "Carvedilol is a non-selective beta-blocker and an alpha-1 blocker used primarily in the management of heart failure, hypertension, and left ventricular dysfunction following a heart attack. It works by relaxing blood vessels and slowing down the heart rate, which helps to decrease blood pressure and improve blood flow. The medication also provides protection against heart failure progression and has antioxidant properties, making it beneficial for overall cardiovascular health.",
    "uses": "Carvedilol is commonly used in the treatment of chronic heart failure to improve symptoms and survival rates. It is also prescribed for managing hypertension, especially when other medications have not been effective. Additionally, it can be used post-myocardial infarction to reduce the risk of subsequent heart failure and to help stabilize the heart's function. By addressing both heart rate and blood pressure, it offers a comprehensive approach to treating cardiovascular issues.",
    "side effects": [
      "Dizziness: A common side effect, especially when standing up quickly. It may cause lightheadedness or fainting.",
      "Fatigue: Some patients may experience increased tiredness or a lack of energy.",
      "Weight gain: Unexplained weight gain can occur and may indicate fluid retention.",
      "Bradycardia: A slow heart rate may develop, causing symptoms such as fatigue, dizziness, or fainting.",
      "Hypotension: Low blood pressure might lead to symptoms like dizziness, fainting, or nausea."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "کارودیلول یک بتا بلاکر غیر انتخابی و یک آلفا ۱ بلاکر است که عمدتاً در مدیریت نارسایی قلبی، فشار خون بالا و اختلال عملکرد بطن چپ پس از حمله قلبی استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با شل کردن عروق خونی و کاهش ضربان قلب، به کاهش فشار خون و بهبود جریان خون کمک می‌کند. این دارو همچنین از پیشرفت نارسایی قلبی محافظت کرده و خواص آنتی‌اکسیدانی دارد که آن را برای سلامت کلی قلب و عروق مفید می‌سازد.",
    "uses": "کارودیلول به طور متداول در درمان نارسایی مزمن قلبی برای بهبود علائم و نرخ بقای بیماران تجویز می‌شود. همچنین برای مدیریت فشار خون بالا، به ویژه زمانی که سایر داروها مؤثر نبوده‌اند، تجویز می‌شود. علاوه بر این، می‌تواند پس از انفارکتوس میوکارد برای کاهش خطر نارسایی قلبی بعدی و کمک به تثبیت عملکرد قلب استفاده شود. با توجه به مدیریت همزمان ضربان قلب و فشار خون، شیوه‌ای جامع در درمان مسائل قلبی و عروقی ارائه می‌دهد.",
    "side effects": [
      "سرگیجه: یک عارضه شایع، به ویژه زمانی که سریعاً از حالت نشسته به حالت ایستاده منتقل شوید. ممکن است باعث احساس سبک سر بودن یا غش شود.",
      "خستگی: برخی از بیماران ممکن است خستگی یا کمبود انرژی را تجربه کنند.",
      "افزایش وزن: افزایش وزن غیرموجه می‌تواند اتفاق بیفتد و ممکن است نشان دهنده احتباس مایعات باشد.",
      "برادی‌کاردی: ممکن است ضربان قلب کند توسعه یابد و علائمی مانند خستگی، سرگیجه یا غش ایجاد کند.",
      "فشار خون پایین: فشار خون پایین ممکن است منجر به علائمی مانند سرگیجه، غش یا حالت تهوع شود."
    ]
  }
}