{
  "en": {
    "description": "Dabigatran is an oral anticoagulant medication that belongs to a class of drugs known as direct thrombin inhibitors. It is primarily used to prevent thromboembolic events such as stroke and systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation and to treat and prevent deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). Unlike traditional anticoagulants, dabigatran does not require routine monitoring of anticoagulation levels, making it a convenient option for patients.",
    
    "uses": "Dabigatran is commonly prescribed for patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation to reduce the risk of stroke. It is also used to treat and prevent DVT and PE, conditions characterized by blood clots that can travel to the lungs or cause serious health complications. Additionally, dabigatran may be utilized after orthopedic surgeries, such as hip and knee replacements, to prevent thromboembolic events during the recovery process.",
    
    "side effects": [
      "Bleeding: Increased risk of bleeding events, which can occur in various locations and may require medical intervention.",
      "Gastrointestinal upset: Commonly reported side effects include stomach pain, indigestion, or nausea.",
      "Liver enzyme changes: Potential for elevated liver enzymes, which may indicate liver damage.",
      "Allergic reactions: Rarely, some patients may experience rash, itching, or swelling as a result of an allergic reaction."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "داپیگاتران یک داروی ضد انعقاد خوراکی است که به کلاس داروهای مهارکننده مستقیم ترومبین تعلق دارد. این دارو عمدتاً برای جلوگیری از وقوع حوادث ترومبوآمبولیک مانند سکته مغزی و آمبولی سیستمیک در بیماران مبتلا به فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی و همچنین برای درمان و پیشگیری از ترومبوز ورید عمقی (DVT) و آمبولی ریه (PE) استفاده می‌شود. بر خلاف ضد انعقادی‌های سنتی، داپیگاتران نیاز به نظارت منظم بر سطوح ضد انعقاد ندارد، که این امر آن را به گزینه‌ای مناسب برای بیماران تبدیل می‌کند.",
    
    "uses": "داپیگاتران معمولاً برای بیماران مبتلا به فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی غیر والنولاری تجویز می‌شود تا خطر سکته مغزی را کاهش دهد. همچنین از آن برای درمان و پیشگیری از DVT و PE استفاده می‌شود، شرایطی که با لخته‌های خونی که می‌توانند به ریه‌ها بروند یا باعث عوارض جدی بهداشتی شوند، مشخص می‌شود. علاوه بر این، داپیگاتران ممکن است بعد از جراحی‌های ارتوپدی، مانند تعویض مفصل ران و زانو، برای پیشگیری از حوادث ترومبوآمبولیک در حین روند بهبودی استفاده شود.",
    
    "side effects": [
      "خونریزی: افزایش خطر وقوع خونریزی، که ممکن است در مکان‌های مختلف رخ دهد و نیاز به مداخله پزشکی داشته باشد.",
      "ناراحتی گوارشی: عوارض جانبی شایع شامل درد معده، سوء هاضمه یا تهوع است.",
      "تغییرات آنزیم‌های کبدی: احتمال بالارفتن آنزیم‌های کبدی، که ممکن است نشان دهنده آسیب کبدی باشد.",
      "واکنش‌های آلرژیک: به ندرت، برخی از بیماران ممکن است به عنوان نتیجه یک واکنش آلرژیک با خارش، جوش یا تورم مواجه شوند."
    ]
  }
}