{
  "en": {
    "description": "Digoxin is a medication derived from the leaves of the foxglove plant, primarily used in the treatment of various heart conditions. It works by increasing the force of heart muscle contractions, enhancing cardiac output, and regulating heart rhythm. It is commonly prescribed for heart failure and atrial fibrillation, helping to slow down the heart rate and improve symptoms of heart strain.",
    "uses": "Digoxin is used in the management of heart failure by improving the heart's efficiency and reducing symptoms such as shortness of breath and fatigue. It is also employed in the treatment of atrial fibrillation, a type of irregular heartbeat, to control the heart rate. Additionally, Digoxin can be useful in certain cases of tachycardia and in patients with congenital heart defects, making it a versatile option in cardiac care.\n\nMoreover, Digoxin is sometimes used in combination with other medications to enhance their effects on overall heart function. Its ability to strengthen heart contractions helps in managing conditions where the heart is not pumping effectively, thus improving the quality of life for individuals with chronic heart conditions.",
    "side effects": [
      "Nausea: A sensation of unease and discomfort in the stomach, often accompanied by an urge to vomit.",
      "Vomiting: The act of expelling the contents of the stomach through the mouth.",
      "Diarrhea: Frequent and watery bowel movements that can lead to dehydration.",
      "Fatigue: A state of extreme tiredness and lack of energy.",
      "Arrhythmias: Irregular heartbeats that can vary in severity.",
      "Visual disturbances: Changes in vision, such as seeing halos or blurred vision.",
      "Confusion: A mental state characterized by a lack of clarity in thought, leading to difficulties in understanding or focusing."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "دیگوکستین یک دارو است که از برگ‌های گیاه زنگوله‌ای استخراج می‌شود و عمدتاً برای درمان شرایط قلبی مختلف استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با افزایش نیروی انقباضات عضله قلب، کارایی قلب را افزایش داده و ریتم قلب را تنظیم می‌کند. این دارو معمولاً برای نارسایی قلب و فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی تجویز می‌شود و به کنترل نبض و بهبود علائم فشار بر قلب کمک می‌کند.",
    "uses": "دیگوکستین در مدیریت نارسایی قلبی استفاده می‌شود و با بهبود کارایی قلب و کاهش علائم مثل تنگی نفس و خستگی، به بیماران کمک می‌کند. همچنین در درمان فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی، نوعی ضربان نامنظم قلب، به منظور کنترل نبض به کار می‌رود. علاوه بر این، دیگوکستین می‌تواند در موارد خاصی از تندضربانی قلب و در بیمارانی با نقص‌های مادرزادی قلبی مفید باشد، که این دارو را به گزینه‌ای چندکاره در مراقبت‌های قلبی تبدیل می‌کند.\n\nعلاوه بر این، دیگوکستین گاهی به همراه سایر داروها برای تقویت اثرات آن‌ها بر عملکرد کلی قلب استفاده می‌شود. توانایی این دارو در تقویت انقباضات قلب به مدیریت شرایطی که در آن قلب به طور مؤثر عمل نمی‌کند، کمک کرده و بنابراین کیفیت زندگی افراد مبتلا به بیماری‌های مزمن قلبی را بهبود می‌بخشد.",
    "side effects": [
      "تهوع: احساس ناراحتی و ناراحتی در معده که اغلب با تمایل به استفراغ همراه است.",
      "استفراغ: عمل بیرون آوردن محتویات معده از طریق دهان.",
      "اسهال: حرکات مکرر و آبکی روده که می‌تواند منجر به کم آبی شود.",
      "خستگی: حالت خستگی شدید و کمبود انرژی.",
      "آریتمی‌ها: ضربان‌های نامنظم قلب که می‌توانند متفاوت باشند.",
      "اختلالات بینایی: تغییراتی در بینایی مانند دیدن حلقه‌ها یا تاری دید.",
      "سردرگمی: حالتی ذهنی که با عدم وضوح در تفکر همراه است و منجر به دشواری در درک یا تمرکز می‌شود."
    ]
  }
}