```json
{
  "en": {
    "description": "Edoxaban is an oral anticoagulant that belongs to the class of direct factor Xa inhibitors. It works by selectively inhibiting factor Xa, which is a key enzyme in the coagulation cascade responsible for thrombin generation. By reducing thrombin levels, Edoxaban helps prevent the formation of blood clots, making it an important medication for patients at risk of thromboembolic events such as stroke and deep vein thrombosis.",
    "uses": "Edoxaban is primarily used for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. It is also indicated for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) after initial therapy with a parenteral anticoagulant. Additionally, it is employed in patients who have undergone orthopedic surgery to prevent post-surgical thromboembolic complications.\n\nDue to its predictable pharmacokinetics, Edoxaban does not require routine coagulation monitoring, making it more convenient than traditional anticoagulants. This ease of use, combined with its efficacy, has made it a popular choice among healthcare providers for managing patients with a high risk of thrombotic issues.",
    "side effects": [
      "Bleeding: Edoxaban may increase the risk of bleeding, including serious or life-threatening hemorrhages.",
      "Anemia: Patients may experience a decrease in red blood cell count, leading to symptoms like fatigue and weakness.",
      "Nausea: Some individuals may experience gastrointestinal discomfort, including nausea.",
      "Liver enzyme elevation: Edoxaban can cause elevated liver enzymes, which could indicate liver dysfunction.",
      "Rash: Skin reactions, including rashes or itching, may occur in some patients."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "ادوکسابان یک داروی ضد انعقاد خوراکی است که به کلاس مهارکننده‌های مستقیم فاکتور Xa تعلق دارد. این دارو با مهار انتخابی فاکتور Xa که آنزیم کلیدی در زنجیره انعقادی و مسئول تولید ترومبین است، عمل می‌کند. با کاهش سطوح ترومبین، ادوکسابان به جلوگیری از تشکیل لخته‌های خون کمک می‌کند و این دارو برای بیمارانی که در معرض خطر رویدادهای ترومبوآمبولیک نظیر سکته مغزی و ترومبوز ورید عمقی هستند، مهم است.",
    "uses": "ادوکسابان عمدتاً برای پیشگیری از سکته مغزی و آمبولی سیستمیک در بیماران مبتلا به فیبریلاسیون دهلیزی غیر دریچه‌ای استفاده می‌شود. همچنین برای درمان ترومبوز ورید عمقی (DVT) و آمبولی ریوی (PE) پس از درمان اولیه با یک ضد انعقاد پارنتریال تجویز می‌شود. علاوه بر این، در بیمارانی که تحت جراحی‌های ارتوپدی قرار گرفته‌اند برای جلوگیری از عوارض ترومبوآمبولیک پس از جراحی استفاده می‌شود.\n\nبه دلیل دارا بودن فارماکوکینتیک قابل پیش‌بینی، ادوکسابان نیازی به مانیتورینگ روتین انعقاد خون ندارد که این موضوع آن را نسبت به ضد انعقادهای سنتی راحت‌تر می‌کند. این سهولت در استفاده به همراه اثربخشی آن، عامل محبوبیت آن در میان ارائه‌دهندگان مراقبت‌های بهداشتی برای مدیریت بیماران با خطر بالای مشکلات ترومبوتیک شده است.",
    "side effects": [
      "خونریزی: ادوکسابان ممکن است خطر خونریزی را افزایش دهد، از جمله خونریزی‌های جدی یا تهدیدکننده زندگی.",
      "کم‌خونی: بیماران ممکن است کاهش تعداد سلول‌های قرمز خون را تجربه کنند که منجر به عوارضی مانند خستگی و ضعف می‌شود.",
      "تهوع: برخی افراد ممکن است دچار ناراحتی‌های گوارشی، از جمله تهوع شوند.",
      "افزایش آنزیم‌های کبدی: ادوکسابان می‌تواند باعث افزایش آنزیم‌های کبدی شود که ممکن است نشان دهنده اختلال کبدی باشد.",
      "راش: واکنش‌های پوستی، از جمله راش یا خارش، ممکن است در برخی بیماران بروز کند."
    ]
  }
}
```