{
  "en": {
    "description": "Furosemide is a loop diuretic medication commonly used to treat conditions such as heart failure, liver cirrhosis, and kidney disease. It works by inhibiting the reabsorption of sodium and chloride in the renal tubules, promoting the excretion of water, which helps reduce fluid overload and lower blood pressure. Furosemide is often administered orally or intravenously and is known for its rapid onset of action.",
    "uses": "Furosemide is primarily used for the management of edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis, and renal impairment. It is also used to treat hypertension, typically in patients who do not respond adequately to other antihypertensive agents. Additionally, Furosemide can be utilized in acute pulmonary edema to quickly alleviate symptoms by reducing fluid accumulation in the lungs.\n\nIt may be prescribed postoperatively for patients who have undergone surgery and are at risk for fluid retention. In certain cases, Furosemide is also used to promote the excretion of toxins in patients with acute kidney injury or chronic kidney disease, making it a versatile agent in clinical practice.",
    "side effects": [
      "Dehydration: Excessive urination can lead to dehydration and electrolyte imbalances.",
      "Hypokalemia: A significant drop in potassium levels can occur, leading to muscle weakness and irregular heartbeats.",
      "Tinnitus: Some patients may experience ringing in the ears, which can potentially lead to hearing loss.",
      "Hypotension: Furosemide can cause a significant decrease in blood pressure, particularly when standing up.",
      "Renal impairment: Overuse or high doses of Furosemide could potentially lead to kidney damage."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "فوروزماید یک داروی مدر از نوع لوپ است که معمولاً برای درمان شرایطی مانند نارسایی قلبی، سیروز کبدی و بیماری‌های کلیوی استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با مهار بازجذب سدیم و کلر در توبول‌های کلیوی عمل می‌کند و باعث افزایش دفع آب می‌شود که به کاهش بار اضافی مایع و پایین آوردن فشار خون کمک می‌کند. فوروزماید معمولاً به صورت خوراکی یا داخل وریدی تجویز می‌شود و به خاطر شروع سریع عملکردش شناخته شده است.",
    "uses": "فوروزماید عمدتاً برای مدیریت ادم مرتبط با نارسایی قلبی احتقانی، سیروز کبدی و اختلالات کلیوی استفاده می‌شود. همچنین برای درمان پرفشاری خون به کار می‌رود، به ویژه در بیمارانی که به خوبی به سایر داروهای ضد فشار خون پاسخ نمی‌دهند. علاوه بر این، فوروزماید می‌تواند در ادم ریوی حاد برای کاهش سریع علائم با کاهش انباشت مایع در ریه‌ها مورد استفاده قرار گیرد.\n\nاین دارو ممکن است پس از جراحی برای بیمارانی که در خطر احتباس مایعات هستند تجویز شود. در بعضی موارد، فوروزماید همچنین برای افزایش دفع سموم در بیمارانی با آسیب حاد کلیه یا بیماری مزمن کلیوی استفاده می‌شود و به همین دلیل وسیله‌ای چندمنظوره در عمل بالینی است.",
    "side effects": [
      "کم آبی: ادرار زیاد می‌تواند منجر به کم آبی و عدم تعادل الکترولیت‌ها شود.",
      "هیپوکالمی: افت قابل توجهی در سطح پتاسیم ممکن است ایجاد شود که منجر به ضعف عضلانی و اختلال ضربان قلب می‌شود.",
      "زنگ‌زدن در گوش: برخی بیماران ممکن است زنگ‌زدن در گوش را تجربه کنند که می‌تواند به از دست رفتن شنوایی منجر شود.",
      "افت فشار خون: فوروزماید می‌تواند باعث کاهش قابل توجه فشار خون شود، به ویژه هنگام ایستادن.",
      "اختلال در عملکرد کلیه: استفاده بیش از حد یا دوزهای بالا از فوروزماید ممکن است منجر به آسیب کلیوی شود."
    ]
  }
}