{
  "en": {
    "description": "Hydralazine is a vasodilator medication used primarily to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). It works by relaxing the muscles in the blood vessels, which allows them to widen and lowers blood pressure. Hydralazine is often prescribed in conjunction with other antihypertensive agents and is especially beneficial in cases of severe hypertension or hypertensive emergencies. It is imperative to monitor patients closely for potential side effects, and it should be used cautiously, particularly in those with existing cardiovascular conditions.",
    "uses": "Hydralazine is mainly used to manage hypertension, particularly in patients with resistant hypertension. It can be effective in treating hypertensive emergencies and is sometimes used in combination with other medications to enhance blood pressure control. Additionally, hydralazine may be employed in the management of heart failure, especially in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. Clinical guidelines often recommend its use for patients who do not respond adequately to standard antihypertensive treatments.",
    "side effects": [
      "Headaches: Patients may experience headaches due to the sudden decrease in blood pressure.",
      "Palpitations: Some individuals may feel an abnormal awareness of heartbeats.",
      "Dizziness: Dizziness can occur, especially when standing up quickly (orthostatic hypotension).",
      "Nausea: A feeling of queasiness may accompany the use of this medication.",
      "Fatigue: Patients might experience unusual tiredness or weakness.",
      "Rash: Skin rashes or allergic reactions can occur in some individuals.",
      "Fluid retention: This medication may cause the body to retain fluids, leading to swelling.",
      "Lupus-like syndrome: In rare cases, hydralazine can trigger symptoms similar to lupus, including joint pain and fever."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "هیدرالازین یک داروی گشادکننده عروق است که عمدتاً برای درمان فشار خون بالا (هیپرتنشن) استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با شل کردن عضلات رگ های خونی عمل می‌کند و این امر باعث گشاد شدن و کاهش فشار خون می‌شود. هیدرالازین معمولاً در کنار سایر داروهای ضد فشار خون تجویز می‌شود و به ویژه در موارد فشار خون شدید یا اورژانس‌های هیپرتنسیو مفید است. پایش بیماران برای عوارض جانبی احتمالی بسیار مهم است و باید به‌طور احتیاطی استفاده شود، به‌ویژه در کسانی که دارای مشکلات قلبی موجود هستند.",
    "uses": "هیدرالازین عمدتاً برای مدیریت فشار خون بالا، به‌ویژه در بیمارانی که فشار خون مقاوم دارند، استفاده می‌شود. این دارو می‌تواند در درمان اورژانس‌های هیپرتنسیو مؤثر باشد و گاهی اوقات در ترکیب با سایر داروها برای بهبود کنترل فشار خون مورد استفاده قرار می‌گیرد. علاوه بر این، هیدرالازین ممکن است در مدیریت نارسایی قلبی، به‌ویژه در بیمارانی با اختلال عملکرد بطن چپ، به کار رود. راهنمایی‌های بالینی اغلب استفاده از آن را برای بیمارانی که به درمان‌های استاندارد ضد فشار خون به‌طور کافی پاسخ نمی‌دهند، توصیه می‌کنند.",
    "side effects": [
      "سردرد: بیماران ممکن است به علت کاهش ناگهانی فشار خون دچار سردرد شوند.",
      "تپش قلب: برخی افراد ممکن است احساس کنند که ضربان قلب غیرعادی دارند.",
      "سرگیجه: سرگیجه ممکن است به ویژه هنگام بلند شدن سریع (افت فشار خون ارتواستاتیک) ایجاد شود.",
      "تهوع: احساس حالت تهوع ممکن است همراه با استفاده از این دارو ایجاد شود.",
      "خستگی: بیماران ممکن است خستگی یا ضعف غیرمعمول را تجربه کنند.",
      "راش: جوش‌های پوستی یا واکنش‌های آلرژیک ممکن است در برخی افراد رخ دهد.",
      "احتباس مایعات: این دارو ممکن است باعث احتباس مایعات در بدن شود که منجر به ورم می‌شود.",
      "سندرم شبیه لوپوس: در موارد نادر، هیدرالازین می‌تواند علائمی شبیه لوپوس را تحریک کند، از جمله درد مفاصل و تب."
    ]
  }
}