```json
{
  "en": {
    "description": "Lisinopril is an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor used primarily in the treatment of high blood pressure (hypertension) and heart failure. It works by relaxing blood vessels, allowing blood to flow more easily, which helps to lower blood pressure and decrease the workload on the heart. Additionally, Lisinopril can be used to improve survival after a heart attack and to protect the kidneys in patients with diabetes or other kidney-related conditions.",
    "uses": "Lisinopril is commonly prescribed to manage hypertension and heart failure. It can also be used post-myocardial infarction to reduce the risk of further heart issues. Furthermore, it is beneficial for patients with diabetes, as it helps protect the kidneys from damage caused by high blood sugar levels. By promoting lower blood pressure, Lisinopril may also help prevent strokes, kidney problems, and heart attacks in at-risk populations.\n\nAdditionally, Lisinopril may be indicated for some patients with certain types of heart disease, specifically those with left ventricular dysfunction. It is essential for doctors to monitor patients for any adverse effects and adjust dosages as necessary to ensure maximum benefit with minimal risk.",
    "side effects": [
      "Cough: A persistent dry cough may occur due to the accumulation of bradykinin, a substance affected by ACE inhibitors.",
      "Dizziness: Some patients may experience dizziness, especially upon standing, due to blood pressure lowering effects.",
      "Hyperkalemia: Elevated potassium levels can happen, leading to potentially serious heart issues if not monitored.",
      "Fatigue: Patients might experience unusual tiredness or fatigue from changes in blood flow.",
      "Allergic reactions: Rarely, Lisinopril can cause severe allergic reactions such as swelling of the face, lips, or throat."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "لیزینوپریل یک مهارکننده آنزیم تبدیل آنژیوتنسین (ACE) است که عمدتاً در درمان فشار خون بالا (هیپرتنشن) و نارسایی قلبی استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با شل کردن عروق خونی باعث می‌شود خون راحت‌تر جریان یابد که به کاهش فشار خون و کاهش بار بر روی قلب کمک می‌کند. علاوه بر این، لیزینوپریل می‌تواند بعد از حمله قلبی برای بهبود بقا و حفاظت از کلیه‌ها در بیماران مبتلا به دیابت یا سایر شرایط مرتبط با کلیه استفاده شود.",
    "uses": "لیزینوپریل معمولاً برای مدیریت هیپرتنشن و نارسایی قلبی تجویز می‌شود. همچنین می‌تواند بعد از انفارکتوس میوکارد برای کاهش خطر مشکلات قلبی بیشتر استفاده شود. علاوه بر این، برای بیماران مبتلا به دیابت مفید است، زیرا از آسیب به کلیه‌ها ناشی از سطوح بالای قند خون جلوگیری می‌کند. با ترویج فشار خون پایین‌تر، لیزینوپریل همچنین می‌تواند به پیشگیری از سکته‌ها، مشکلات کلیوی و حملات قلبی در جمعیت در معرض خطر کمک کند.\n\nعلاوه بر این، لیزینوپریل ممکن است برای برخی از بیماران با انواع خاصی از بیماری‌های قلبی، به ویژه آنهایی که دچار اختلال عملکرد بطن چپ هستند، نشان داده شود. نظارت بر بیماران برای هر گونه عوارض جانبی و تنظیم دوزها به‌طور ضروری برای اطمینان از حداکثر سود با حداقل خطر ضروری است.",
    "side effects": [
      "سرفه: ممکن است سرفه‌ای خشک و مداوم به‌علت تجمع برادیکینینی که تحت تأثیر مهارکننده‌های ACE قرار می‌گیرد، رخ دهد.",
      "سرگیجه: برخی از بیماران ممکن است دچار سرگیجه شوند، به‌ویژه هنگام ایستادن، به‌دلیل اثرات کاهش‌دهنده فشار خون.",
      "هیپرکالمی: افزایش سطح پتاسیم ممکن است اتفاق بیفتد که می‌تواند منجر به مسائل جدی قلبی شود اگر تحت نظارت قرار نگیرد.",
      "خستگی: بیماران ممکن است خستگی غیرعادی یا ضعف را از تغییرات در جریان خون تجربه کنند.",
      "واکنش‌های آلرژیک: به‌طور نادر، لیزینوپریل می‌تواند باعث واکنش‌های آلرژیک شدید مانند ورم صورت، لب‌ها یا گلو شود."
    ]
  }
}
```