{
 "en": {
    "description": "Losartan is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist primarily used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and to help protect the kidneys from damage due to diabetes. It works by relaxing blood vessels so blood can flow more easily. This medication also reduces the risk of stroke in patients with high blood pressure and left ventricular hypertrophy. Losartan may also be utilized in cases of heart failure and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in certain patients.",
    
    "uses": "Losartan is commonly prescribed for managing hypertension, allowing patients to maintain healthier blood pressure levels. Additionally, it is utilized for kidney protection in diabetic patients to prevent progression to more severe kidney disease. The drug is also indicated for the treatment of heart failure and can be used to decrease the risk of stroke in patients with specific risk factors, thereby improving overall cardiovascular health.\n\nMoreover, Losartan can be combined with other antihypertensive medications to achieve better blood pressure control in patients who do not respond sufficiently to monotherapy.",
    
    "side effects": [
        "Dizziness: A common side effect, which can cause lightheadedness or fainting, especially when standing up quickly.",
        "Fatigue: Patients may experience a feeling of tiredness or low energy levels.",
        "Hyperkalemia: An increase in potassium levels in the blood, which can lead to serious complications if not monitored.",
        "Headache: Some individuals might experience headaches following treatment.",
        "Nausea: Gastrointestinal discomfort or an urge to vomit can occur.",
        "Angioedema: A rare but serious side effect characterized by swelling in the deeper layers of the skin, particularly around the eyes and lips."
    ]
 },
 "fa": {
     "description": "لوزارتان یک آنتاگونیست گیرنده آنژیوتانسین II است که عمدتاً برای درمان فشار خون بالا (هیپرتنشن) و کمک به محافظت از کلیه‌ها در برابر آسیب ناشی از دیابت استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با شل کردن عروق خونی باعث می‌شود خون راحت‌تر جاری شود. این دارو همچنین خطر سکته را در بیماران مبتلا به فشار خون بالا و هایپرتروفی بطن چپ کاهش می‌دهد. لوزارتان همچنین ممکن است در موارد نارسایی قلبی و به منظور کاهش خطر بروز حوادث قلبی عروقی در برخی بیماران استفاده شود.",
     
     "uses": "لوزارتان به طور معمول برای مدیریت فشار خون بالا تجویز می‌شود و به بیماران کمک می‌کند تا سطوح فشار خون سالم‌تری را حفظ کنند. به علاوه، از این دارو برای محافظت از کلیه‌ها در بیماران دیابتی جهت جلوگیری از پیشرفت به بیماری‌های کلیوی شدیدتر استفاده می‌شود. این دارو همچنین برای درمان نارسایی قلبی نشان داده شده و می‌تواند برای کاهش خطر سکته در بیماران با عوامل خطر خاص استفاده شود و بدین ترتیب سلامت قلبی عروقی کلی را بهبود بخشد.\n\nعلاوه بر این، لوزارتان می‌تواند با سایر داروهای ضد هیپرتنشن ترکیب شده تا در بیمارانی که به تنهایی درمان به اندازه کافی مؤثر نیست، کنترل بهتری بر فشار خون حاصل شود.",
     
     "side effects": [
         "سرگیجه: یکی از عوارض شایع است که می‌تواند باعث احساس سبکی سر یا غش شود، به ویژه هنگام ایستادن ناگهانی.",
         "خستگی: بیماران ممکن است احساس خستگی یا سطح پایین انرژی داشته باشند.",
         "هیپرکالمی: افزایش سطح پتاسیم در خون که می‌تواند اگر کنترل نشود به عوارض جدی منجر شود.",
         "سردرد: برخی افراد ممکن است پس از شروع درمان دچار سردرد شوند.",
         "تهوع: ناراحتی گوارشی یا احساس تمایل به استفراغ ممکن است رخ دهد.",
         "آنگیو ادم: عارضه نادری که می‌تواند به طور جدی باعث ورم در لایه‌های عمیق پوست، به ویژه در اطراف چشم‌ها و لب‌ها شود."
     ]
 }
}