{
  "en": {
    "description": "Metoprolol is a selective beta-1 adrenergic antagonist (beta-blocker) commonly prescribed to manage hypertension, angina pectoris, and heart failure. By blocking the action of certain natural chemicals in the body, like epinephrine, it reduces heart rate and blood pressure, decreasing the heart's workload and improving blood flow. Metoprolol may also be used for preventing migraines and in some cases, to treat anxiety disorders.",
    "uses": "Metoprolol is primarily used for treating high blood pressure, which helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. It is also effective in managing angina (chest pain), improving exercise capacity in patients with heart disease. Additionally, it is prescribed for heart failure to enhance heart efficiency and can be employed for post-myocardial infarction treatment to improve survival rates. In certain patients, metoprolol may be utilized off-label for managing migraine headaches and aiding in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder.",
    "side effects": [
      "Fatigue: Users may experience tiredness or a decrease in energy levels.",
      "Dizziness: Some people might feel lightheaded or dizzy, particularly when standing up quickly.",
      "Cold hands/feet: Metoprolol can cause reduced blood flow to extremities, resulting in cold sensations.",
      "Slow heart rate: The medication may lead to bradycardia, where the heart beats slower than normal.",
      "Depression: Some patients have reported feelings of sadness or depressive symptoms while taking metoprolol."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "متوپرولول یک آنتاگونیست انتخابی بتا-1 (بتا-بلوک‌کننده) است که به طور معمول برای مدیریت فشار خون بالا، آنژین پکتوریس و نارسایی قلبی تجویز می‌شود. با مسدود کردن عملکرد برخی از مواد شیمیایی طبیعی در بدن، مانند اپی‌نفرین، این دارو ضربان قلب و فشار خون را کاهش می‌دهد و بار کاری قلب را کاهش می‌دهد و جریان خون را بهبود می‌بخشد. متوپرولول همچنین ممکن است برای پیشگیری از میگرن و در برخی موارد، درمان اختلالات اضطرابی مورد استفاده قرار گیرد.",
    "uses": "متوپرولول به طور عمده برای درمان فشار خون بالا استفاده می‌شود که به پیشگیری از سکته مغزی، حملات قلبی و مشکلات کلیوی کمک می‌کند. همچنین در مدیریت آنژین (درد قفسه سینه) مؤثر است و ظرفیت ورزشی بیماران مبتلا به بیماری قلبی را بهبود می‌بخشد. علاوه بر این، برای نارسایی قلبی تجویز می‌شود تا کارایی قلب را افزایش دهد و می‌تواند در درمان پس از حمله قلبی برای بهبود نرخ بقای بیماران استفاده شود. در برخی بیماران، متوپرولول ممکن است به صورت خارج از برچسب برای مدیریت سردردهای میگرنی و کمک به درمان اختلال اضطراب عمومی تجویز شود.",
    "side effects": [
      "خستگی: کاربران ممکن است احساس خستگی یا کاهش سطح انرژی کنند.",
      "سرگیجه: برخی افراد ممکن است احساس سبکی سر یا سرگیجه کنند، به ویژه هنگام بلند شدن ناگهانی.",
      "دست‌ها و پاهای سرد: متوپرولول می‌تواند باعث کاهش جریان خون به اندام‌ها شود که منجر به احساس سردی می‌شود.",
      "ضربان قلب کند: این دارو ممکن است به برادی‌کاردی منجر شود، که در آن قلب به آرامی نسبت به حالت عادی می‌زند.",
      "افسردگی: برخی بیماران احساس غم یا علائم افسردگی را در حین مصرف متوپرولول گزارش داده‌اند."
    ]
  }
}