{
  "en": {
    "description": "Nebivolol is a selective beta-1 adrenergic receptor blocker used primarily in the treatment of hypertension and heart failure. It works by decreasing heart rate and cardiac output, leading to lower blood pressure. Unlike some other beta-blockers, Nebivolol also promotes the release of nitric oxide, which helps to dilate blood vessels and further enhance its blood pressure-lowering effects. It is commonly prescribed to improve heart function and manage hypertension in patients with specific cardiovascular conditions.",
    "uses": "Nebivolol is primarily used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) in adults. It is also effective in managing heart failure, especially in patients with reduced ejection fraction. Additionally, Nebivolol may be prescribed to reduce the risk of future cardiovascular events in individuals with a history of heart disease. Due to its properties, it might be beneficial for patients who require a beta-blocker that also has vasodilatory effects, thus offering a dual approach to managing heart health.",
    "side effects": [
      {"name": "Fatigue", "description": "Some patients may experience tiredness or a lack of energy."},
      {"name": "Headache", "description": "Headaches may occur as a common side effect."},
      {"name": "Dizziness", "description": "Dizziness or light-headedness can result from lowered blood pressure."},
      {"name": "Bradycardia", "description": "Nebivolol may cause a slower than normal heart rate."},
      {"name": "Nausea", "description": "Some individuals may feel nauseated, particularly during the initial dosage period."}
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "نبیوولول یک مسدودکننده انتخابی گیرنده‌های آدرنرژیک بتا-۱ است که عمدتاً برای درمان فشار خون بالا و نارسایی قلبی استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با کاهش ضربان قلب و حجم خون پمپاژ شده، باعث کاهش فشار خون می‌شود. بر خلاف برخی دیگر از مسدودکننده‌های بتا، نبیوولول علاوه بر این، ترشح نیتریک اکسید را نیز تحریک می‌کند که به گشاد شدن عروق خونی کمک کرده و اثرات کاهش دهنده فشار خون آن را تقویت می‌کند. این دارو معمولاً برای بهبود عملکرد قلب و مدیریت فشار خون در بیماران با شرایط خاص قلبی تجویز می‌شود.",
    "uses": "نبیوولول عمدتاً برای درمان فشار خون بالا (هایپرتنشن) در بزرگسالان استفاده می‌شود. همچنین در مدیریت نارسایی قلبی، به ویژه در بیمارانی با کاهش کسر خروجی، مؤثر است. علاوه بر این، ممکن است نبیوولول برای کاهش خطر بروز حوادث قلبی عروقی در افرادی با سابقه بیماری قلبی تجویز شود. با توجه به ویژگی‌های آن، ممکن است برای بیمارانی که به مسدودکننده بتا نیاز دارند و همچنین دارای اثرات گشادکننده عروق هستند، مفید باشد که روش دوگانه‌ای برای مدیریت سلامت قلب ارائه می‌دهد.",
    "side effects": [
      {"name": "خستگی", "description": "برخی از بیماران ممکن است خستگی یا کمبود انرژی احساس کنند."},
      {"name": "سردرد", "description": "سردردها ممکن است به عنوان یک عارضه جانبی شایع رخ دهند."},
      {"name": "سرگیجه", "description": "سرگیجه یا احساس سبکی سر ممکن است به دلیل کاهش فشار خون ایجاد شود."},
      {"name": "Bradycardia", "description": "نبیوولول ممکن است باعث کندی غیرعادی ضربان قلب شود."},
      {"name": "تهوع", "description": "برخی افراد ممکن است احساس تهوع داشته باشند، به ویژه در طول دوره دوز اولیه."}
    ]
  }
}