{
  "en": {
    "description": "Nicorandil is a vasodilator used primarily in the treatment of angina pectoris, a condition characterized by chest pain due to reduced blood flow to the heart. It acts by opening potassium channels and by stimulating nitric oxide synthesis, which helps to relax blood vessels and improve blood flow to the heart. This dual mechanism of action not only alleviates symptoms associated with angina but can also improve exercise tolerance in patients.",
    "uses": "Nicorandil is commonly used for the management of angina pectoris, particularly in patients who do not respond adequately to other antianginal medications. It can be prescribed for the long-term treatment of chronic stable angina and is sometimes utilized during exercise or stressful situations to prevent angina attacks. In addition to its primary indication, Nicorandil may be considered in certain cases of heart failure and acute coronary syndrome due to its vasodilatory properties.\n\nMoreover, Nicorandil may be beneficial for patients with refractory angina, as it helps to reduce the frequency and severity of angina episodes. It is also being explored in clinical research for potential applications in other cardiovascular diseases due to its unique mechanism of action and protective effects on the heart muscle.",
    "side effects": [
      "Headache: A common side effect that occurs as a result of vasodilation, leading to increased blood flow to the head.",
      "Dizziness: Can result from lowered blood pressure due to its vasodilating effects.",
      "Flushing: Redness of the skin, particularly on the face, due to increased blood flow.",
      "Nausea: Some patients may experience gastrointestinal distress.",
      "Palpitations: May occur as the heart rhythm is affected by changes in blood flow.",
      "Hypotension: Low blood pressure can occur, especially when standing up quickly."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "نیکوراندیل یک وازودیلاتور است که عمدتاً در درمان آنژین پکتوریس، وضعیتی که با درد قفسه سینه به خاطر کاهش جریان خون به قلب مشخص می‌شود، استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با باز کردن کانال‌های پتاسیم و تحریک سنتز نیتریک اکسید عمل می‌کند که به شل شدن رگ‌های خونی و بهبود جریان خون به قلب کمک می‌کند. این عمل دوگانه نه تنها علائم مرتبط با آنژین را کاهش می‌دهد بلکه می‌تواند تحمل ورزشی را در بیماران بهبود بخشد.",
    "uses": "نیکوراندیل معمولاً برای مدیریت آنژین پکتوریس استفاده می‌شود، به‌ویژه در بیمارانی که به داروهای ضد آنژین دیگر به‌طور کافی پاسخ نمی‌دهند. این دارو می‌تواند برای درمان درازمدت آنژین پایدار مزمن تجویز شود و گاهی اوقات در طول تمرین یا موقعیت‌های استرس‌زا برای جلوگیری از حملات آنژین استفاده می‌شود. علاوه بر هدف اولیه‌اش، نیکوراندیل ممکن است در برخی موارد نارسایی قلبی و سندرم کرونر حاد به‌دلیل خواص وازودیلاتوری‌اش در نظر گرفته شود.\n\nعلاوه بر این، نیکوراندیل ممکن است برای بیمارانی که آنژین مقاوم دارند مفید باشد، زیرا به کاهش فراوانی و شدت حملات آنژین کمک می‌کند. همچنین در تحقیقات بالینی در حال بررسی استفاده‌های بالقوه آن در سایر بیماری‌های قلبی به‌دلیل مکانیزم عمل منحصر به‌فرد آن و اثرات محافظتی‌اش بر روی عضله قلب است.",
    "side effects": [
      "سردرد: یک عارضه شایع که به‌خاطر وازودیلاسیون، منجر به افزایش جریان خون به سر می‌شود.",
      "سرگیجه: ممکن است به‌خاطر کاهش فشار خون به‌خاطر اثرات وازودیلاتور آن ایجاد شود.",
      "گرگرفتگی: قرمزی پوست، به‌ویژه در صورت، به‌دلیل افزایش جریان خون.",
      "تهوع: برخی از بیماران ممکن است دچار ناراحتی گوارشی شوند.",
      "تپش قلب: ممکن است به‌خاطر تأثیر بر ریتم قلب به‌دلیل تغییرات در جریان خون ایجاد شود.",
      "فشار خون پایین: فشار خون پایین ممکن است به‌ویژه هنگام بلند شدن سریع از حالت نشسته یا خوابیده رخ دهد."
    ]
  }
}