```json
{
  "en": {
    "description": "Propranolol is a non-selective beta-blocker that is commonly used to treat high blood pressure, anxiety, certain types of heart conditions, and migraines. It works by blocking the effects of epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, which helps to decrease heart rate and blood pressure, and can also reduce the physical symptoms of anxiety.",
    "uses": "Propranolol is frequently prescribed for managing hypertension, serving as an effective treatment for patients at risk of heart disease. It is also used to prevent migraine headaches, significantly reducing the frequency and severity of attacks. In addition, propranolol is utilized in treating performance anxiety, helping individuals remain calm and composed during stressful situations such as public speaking or performance arts. Beyond these applications, it may be employed to alleviate symptoms of hyperthyroidism and certain types of tremors.",
    "side effects": [
      "Fatigue: May cause drowsiness or a general sense of tiredness.",
      "Cold hands and feet: Due to reduced circulation, some users may experience colder extremities.",
      "Weakness: A common side effect, leading to reduced physical stamina.",
      "Dizziness: Users may feel lightheaded, especially when standing up quickly.",
      "Nausea: Some individuals report gastrointestinal discomfort or an upset stomach.",
      "Sleep disturbances: It may affect sleep patterns, leading to insomnia or vivid dreams.",
      "Bradycardia: A slower than normal heart rate, which may require monitoring.",
      "Shortness of breath: In some cases, patients may experience respiratory difficulties."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "پروپرانولول یک بتابلاکر غیر انتخابی است که به طور معمول برای درمان فشار خون بالا، اضطراب، برخی از بیماری‌های قلبی و میگرن استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با مسدود کردن اثرات اپی‌نفرین، معروف به آدرنالین، کار می‌کند که به کاهش ضربان قلب و فشار خون کمک کرده و می‌تواند علائم فیزیکی اضطراب را نیز کاهش دهد.",
    "uses": "پروپرانولول به طور متداول برای مدیریت فشار خون بالا تجویز می‌شود و به عنوان یک درمان مؤثر برای بیمارانی که در معرض بیماری‌های قلبی هستند، عمل می‌کند. این دارو همچنین برای پیشگیری از سردردهای میگرنی استفاده می‌شود و به طور قابل توجهی فراوانی و شدت حملات را کاهش می‌دهد. علاوه بر این، پروپرانولول در درمان اضطراب عملکردی به کار می‌رود و به افراد کمک می‌کند تا در شرایط استرس‌زا مانند سخنرانی عمومی یا هنرهای نمایشی آرام و مطمئن باقی بمانند. فراتر از این کاربردها، ممکن است برای کاهش علائم پرکاری تیروئید و برخی از لرزش‌ها نیز استفاده شود.",
    "side effects": [
      "خستگی: ممکن است باعث خواب‌آلودگی یا حس عمومی خستگی شود.",
      "دست‌ها و پاهای سرد: به دلیل کاهش گردش خون، برخی از کاربران ممکن است از سردی اندام‌های خود شکایت داشته باشند.",
      "ضعف: یکی از عوارض شایع است که می‌تواند منجر به کاهش استقامت جسمی شود.",
      "سرگیجه: کاربران ممکن است احساس سبکی سر کنند، به ویژه هنگام بلند شدن به سرعت.",
      "تهوع: برخی از افراد گزارش ناراحتی‌های گوارشی یا ناراحتی معده را می‌دهند.",
      "اختلالات خواب: ممکن است بر الگوهای خواب تأثیر بگذارد و منجر به بی‌خوابی یا خواب‌های زنده شود.",
      "Bradycardia: ضربان قلب کندتر از حد نرمال، که ممکن است نیاز به نظارت داشته باشد.",
      "تنگی نفس: در برخی موارد، بیماران ممکن است با مشکلات تنفسی مواجه شوند."
    ]
  }
}
```