```json
{
  "en": {
    "description": "Ramipril is an ACE (angiotensin-converting enzyme) inhibitor used primarily for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure. By inhibiting the enzyme that converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II, Ramipril helps to relax blood vessels, reduce blood pressure, and decrease the workload on the heart. It is often prescribed to patients with a history of heart attacks, diabetes, or those at high risk for cardiovascular events.",
    "uses": "1. Treatment of hypertension: Ramipril effectively lowers blood pressure, which can help prevent complications such as stroke and kidney problems.\n\n2. Management of heart failure: This medication aids in reducing symptoms of heart failure, improving one's ability to exercise and perform daily activities.\n\n3. Post-myocardial infarction: Ramipril is commonly used in patients who have suffered a heart attack to improve survival rates and prevent heart failure.\n\n4. Diabetic nephropathy: It is beneficial in slowing the progression of kidney disease in diabetic patients by providing protective effects on the kidneys.",
    "side effects": [
      "Cough: A persistent dry cough can occur due to increased bradykinin levels, which might require discontinuation of the drug.",
      "Hyperkalemia: Elevated potassium levels can develop, potentially leading to serious heart rhythms.",
      "Low blood pressure: Patients may experience dizziness or lightheadedness, especially after the first dose.",
      "Kidney dysfunction: Some individuals may experience a decline in kidney function, necessitating regular monitoring of kidney parameters.",
      "Angioedema: Although rare, this serious allergic reaction can lead to swelling of the face, lips, or throat."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "رامیپریل یک مهارکننده ACE (آنزیم مبدل آنژیوتنسین) است که به طور عمده برای درمان فشار خون بالا و نارسایی قلبی استفاده می‌شود. با مهار آنزیمی که آنژیوتنسین I را به آنژیوتنسین II تبدیل می‌کند، رامیپریل به شل شدن عروق خونی، کاهش فشار خون و کاهش بار کاری قلب کمک می‌کند. این دارو اغلب برای بیمارانی که سابقه حمله قلبی، دیابت یا در معرض ریسک بالای حوادث قلبی عروقی قرار دارند تجویز می‌شود.",
    "uses": "1. درمان فشار خون بالا: رامیپریل به طور موثر فشار خون را کاهش می‌دهد که می‌تواند به پیشگیری از عوارضی مانند سکته مغزی و مشکلات کلیوی کمک کند.\n\n2. مدیریت نارسایی قلبی: این دارو به کاهش علائم نارسایی قلبی کمک کرده و توانایی فرد را برای ورزش و انجام فعالیت‌های روزانه افزایش می‌دهد.\n\n3. بعد از حمله قلبی: رامیپریل به طور معمول در بیمارانی که حمله قلبی داشته‌اند استفاده می‌شود تا نرخ بقا را بهبود بخشد و از نارسایی قلبی جلوگیری کند.\n\n4. نفروپاتی دیابتی: این دارو در کند کردن پیشرفت بیماری کلیوی در بیماران دیابتی با ارائه اثرات محافظتی بر روی کلیه‌ها مفید است.",
    "side effects": [
      "سرفه: سرفه خشک و مداوم ممکن است به دلیل افزایش سطوح برادی کینین رخ دهد که ممکن است نیاز به قطع دارو داشته باشد.",
      " هایپرکالمی: ممکن است سطح پتاسیم افزایش یابد که می‌تواند منجر به ریتم‌های جدی قلبی شود.",
      "فشار خون پایین: بیماران ممکن است با سرگیجه یا سبکی سر مواجه شوند، به ویژه پس از دوز اول.",
      "اختلال کارکرد کلیه: برخی از افراد ممکن است کاهش در عملکرد کلیه را تجربه کنند که نیاز به نظارت منظم بر پارامترهای کلیوی دارد.",
      "آنژیوادم: گرچه نادر است، این واکنش آلرژیک جدی می‌تواند منجر به ورم صورت، لب‌ها یا گلو شود."
    ]
  }
}
```