{
  "en": {
    "description": "Ranolazine is an antianginal medication primarily used to treat chronic stable angina in patients with coronary artery disease. It works by improving blood flow to the heart and reducing the oxygen demand of the heart muscle, which can help alleviate the symptoms of chest pain. Unlike traditional angina medications, such as nitrates or beta-blockers, ranolazine does not affect heart rate or blood pressure significantly, making it a unique option for patients who cannot tolerate or do not respond well to other therapies.",
    "uses": "Ranolazine is used for the management of chronic stable angina, particularly in patients who have not achieved adequate relief from symptoms with other angina medications, such as beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers. It may be used alone or in combination with other antianginal medications. Additionally, ranolazine has shown potential in improving exercise tolerance and quality of life in patients with stable angina. Some studies also suggest it may have beneficial effects in patients with diabetic cardiovascular disease.",
    "side effects": [
      "Dizziness: A feeling of lightheadedness or unsteadiness that can occur, especially when standing up quickly.",
      "Headache: Pain or discomfort in the head region, which is a common side effect of many medications.",
      "Nausea: A feeling of sickness with an inclination to vomit, which may occur in some patients taking the drug.",
      "Constipation: Difficulty in having bowel movements or infrequent bowel movements.",
      "Fatigue: A feeling of extreme tiredness or lack of energy.",
      "Palpitations: An awareness of heartbeats that may be irregular or unusually fast."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "رانولازین یک داروی ضد آنژینال است که عمدتاً برای درمان آنژین مزمن پایدار در بیماران مبتلا به بیماری عروق کرونر استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با بهبود جریان خون به قلب و کاهش تقاضای اکسیژن از عضله قلب عمل می‌کند که می‌تواند به تسکین علائم درد سینه کمک کند. برخلاف داروهای آنژین سنتی مانند نیتروگلیسیرین یا بتابلاکرها، رانولازین تأثیر زیادی بر ضربان قلب یا فشار خون ندارد و این ویژگی آن را به گزینه‌ای منحصر به فرد برای بیمارانی که نمی‌توانند سایر درمان‌ها را تحمل کنند یا به آن‌ها پاسخ نمی‌دهند، تبدیل می‌کند.",
    "uses": "رانولازین برای مدیریت آنژین مزمن پایدار استفاده می‌شود، به خصوص در بیمارانی که نتوانسته‌اند تسکین کافی از علائم خود با سایر داروهای آنژین مانند بتابلاکرها یا مسدودکننده‌های کلسیم به‌دست آورند. این دارو می‌تواند به تنهایی یا در ترکیب با سایر داروهای ضد آنژینال استفاده شود. علاوه بر این، رانولازین نشان داده است که ممکن است در بهبود تحمل ورزش و کیفیت زندگی در بیماران مبتلا به آنژین پایدار نقش مثبت داشته باشد. برخی از مطالعات نیز نشان می‌دهد که ممکن است اثرات مفیدی برای بیماران مبتلا به بیماری‌های قلبی عروقی دیابتی داشته باشد.",
    "side effects": [
      "سرگیجه: احساس سبکی سر یا عدم تعادل که می‌تواند به ویژه هنگام بلند شدن ناگهانی رخ دهد.",
      "سردرد: درد یا ناراحتی در ناحیه سر که یک عارضه شایع بسیاری از داروها است.",
      "تهوع: احساس بیماری همراه با تمایل به استفراغ که ممکن است در برخی از بیماران مصرف‌کننده این دارو بروز کند.",
      "یبوست: دشواری در دفع مدفوع یا حرکات روده‌ای نامنظم.",
      "خستگی: احساس خستگی شدید یا عدم وجود انرژی.",
      "تپش قلب: آگاهی از ضربان‌های قلب که ممکن است نامنظم یا به‌طور غیرعادی سریع باشد."
    ]
  }
}