{
  "en": {
    "description": "Spironolactone is a potassium-sparing diuretic that is primarily used to treat conditions related to excess fluid retention, such as heart failure, liver cirrhosis, and certain kidney disorders. It works by blocking the action of aldosterone, a hormone that causes the body to retain sodium and water while excreting potassium. By promoting the excretion of sodium and water while conserving potassium, spironolactone helps to reduce fluid buildup and lower blood pressure, making it an important medication in managing various cardiovascular and renal conditions.",
    
    "uses": "Spironolactone is commonly prescribed for the management of heart failure, where it helps reduce edema (swelling) and improve symptoms related to fluid overload. Additionally, it is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure) as it aids in maintaining a healthier blood pressure level. Beyond these primary indications, spironolactone is also used in the treatment of conditions like primary hyperaldosteronism, acne, and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). It is especially favored in managing hormonal imbalances and can help combat excessive hair growth in women. Overall, spironolactone serves as a versatile therapeutic agent in both cardiovascular and endocrine disorders.",

    "side effects": [
      "Hyperkalemia: Elevated potassium levels in the blood, which can lead to serious heart problems.",
      "Gastrointestinal disturbances: This can include nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.",
      "Menstrual irregularities: Women may experience changes in their menstrual cycles.",
      "Dizziness or lightheadedness: This can occur, especially when standing up quickly.",
      "Fatigue: Patients may feel unusually tired or weak."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "اسپیرونولاکتون یک دیورتیک (ادرارآور) محفوظ در پتاسیم است که عمدتاً برای درمان شرایط مرتبط با احتباس مایع اضافی، مانند نارسایی قلبی، سیروز کبدی و برخی اختلالات کلیوی، استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با مسدود کردن عملکرد آلدوسترون، هورمونی که باعث احتباس سدیم و آب در بدن و ادرار دفع پتاسیم می‌شود، عمل می‌کند. با ترویج دفع سدیم و آب و در عین حال حفظ پتاسیم، اسپیرونولاکتون به کاهش تجمع مایع و کاهش فشار خون کمک کرده و دارویی مهم در مدیریت شرایط قلبی و کلیوی مختلف است.",
    
    "uses": "اسپیرونولاکتون به طور معمول برای مدیریت نارسایی قلبی تجویز می‌شود، جایی که به کاهش ورم (پف) و بهبود علائم مربوط به بار اضافی مایع کمک می‌کند. همچنین برای درمان فشار خون بالا (فشار خون بالا) استفاده می‌شود زیرا به حفظ سطح سالم‌تری از فشار خون یاری می‌رساند. فراتر از این نشانه‌های اصلی، اسپیرونولاکتون همچنین در درمان شرایطی مانند هایپرآلدسترونیسم اولیه، آکنه و سندرم تخمدان پلی کیستیک (PCOS) مورد استفاده قرار می‌گیرد. این دارو به ویژه در مدیریت عدم تعادل‌های هورمونی محبوبیت دارد و می‌تواند به مبارزه با رشد موی اضافی در زنان کمک کند. به طور کلی، اسپیرونولاکتون به عنوان یک عامل درمانی چندمنظوره در اختلالات قلبی و غدد درون‌ریز عمل می‌کند.",
    
    "side effects": [
      "هیپرکالمی: افزایش سطح پتاسیم در خون که می‌تواند منجر به مشکلات جدی قلبی شود.",
      "اختلالات گوارشی: این می‌تواند شامل تهوع، استفراغ و اسهال باشد.",
      "اختلالات قاعدگی: زنان ممکن است تغییراتی در چرخه قاعدگی خود تجربه کنند.",
      "سرگیجه یا سبکی سر: این ممکن است رخ دهد، به ویژه هنگام بلند شدن سریع.",
      "خستگی: بیماران ممکن است احساس خستگی یا ضعف غیرمعمول کنند."
    ]
  }
}