{
  "en": {
    "description": "Ticagrelor is an oral antiplatelet medication used to prevent thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with acute coronary syndromes, such as unstable angina or myocardial infarction. It works by inhibiting platelet aggregation, thus reducing the risk of blood clots that can lead to heart attacks or strokes. Ticagrelor is typically used in conjunction with aspirin in patients who are undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention or in those with a high risk of cardiovascular events.",
    
    "uses": "Ticagrelor is primarily used in patients with acute coronary syndrome to decrease the risk of heart attacks, strokes, and other cardiovascular events. It is also indicated for patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous coronary intervention as part of their post-surgical care to ensure effective platelet inhibition. Beyond acute situations, Ticagrelor is utilized in chronic management for individuals with a history of cardiovascular issues to minimize the occurrence of repeat events.",

    "side effects": [
      "Bleeding: Increased risk of bleeding complications due to its antiplatelet effects.",
      "Dyspnea: Some patients may experience shortness of breath, which could be due to the medication's effect on adenosine receptors.",
      "Bradycardia: Decrease in heart rate, which can lead to dizziness or fatigue in some individuals.",
      "Gastrointestinal discomfort: Patients may experience nausea, diarrhea, or abdominal pain.",
      "Rash: Skin reactions, such as rash or itching, may occur in some users."
    ]
  },
  "fa": {
    "description": "تیکاگرلور یک داروی ضد پلاکتی خوراکی است که برای پیشگیری از حوادث قلبی-عروقی ترومبوتیک در بیماران مبتلا به سندرم‌های حاد کرونری مانند آنژین نامناسب یا انفارکتوس میوکارد استفاده می‌شود. این دارو با مهار تجمع پلاکت‌ها عمل می‌کند و بنابراین خطر لخته شدن خون که می‌تواند منجر به حملات قلبی یا سکته‌های مغزی شود را کاهش می‌دهد. تیکاگرلور معمولاً به همراه آسپرین در بیمارانی که تحت مداخله عروق کرونر قرار دارند یا در معرض خطر بالای حوادث قلبی-عروقی هستند استفاده می‌شود.",
    
    "uses": "تیکاگرلور عمدتاً در بیماران مبتلا به سندرم حاد کرونری برای کاهش خطر حملات قلبی، سکته‌ها و سایر حوادث قلبی-عروقی استفاده می‌شود. همچنین این دارو برای بیمارانی که تحت جراحی بای‌پس عروق کرونر یا مداخله عروق کرونر قرار گرفته‌اند به عنوان بخشی از مراقبت‌های پس از جراحی تجویز می‌شود تا اطمینان حاصل شود که مهار پلاکتی به طور مؤثر انجام شود. فراتر از شرایط حاد، تیکاگرلور در مدیریت مزمن برای افرادی با سابقه مسائل قلبی-عروقی استفاده می‌شود تا احتمال وقوع مجدد این حوادث حداقل شود.",

    "side effects": [
      "خونریزی: افزایش خطر عوارض خونریزی به دلیل اثرات ضد پلاکتی آن.",
      "تنگی نفس: برخی بیماران ممکن است دچار تنگی نفس شوند که ممکن است به دلیل تأثیر دارو بر گیرنده‌های آدنوزین باشد.",
      "برادیکاردی: کاهش ضربان قلب که می‌تواند منجر به سرگیجه یا خستگی در برخی افراد شود.",
      "ناراحتی گوارشی: بیماران ممکن است دچار حالت تهوع، اسهال یا درد شکم شوند.",
      "کهیر: واکنش‌های پوستی، مانند کهیر یا خارش، ممکن است در برخی استفاده‌کنندگان رخ دهد."
    ]
  }
}