{
 "en": {
    "description": "Walnuts are nutrient-dense nuts that belong to the tree nut family. They are known for their distinctive shape, rich flavor, and high content of essential fatty acids, particularly omega-3 fatty acids. Walnuts are a versatile ingredient that can be eaten raw, roasted, or used in a variety of dishes, such as salads, baked goods, and as toppings. They are often praised for their health benefits, which include improved heart health, brain function, and anti-inflammatory properties.",
    "benefits": [
      "Rich source of omega-3 fatty acids, promoting heart health.",
      "Supports cognitive function and brain health.",
      "Contains antioxidants that help combat oxidative stress.",
      "May aid in weight management by promoting satiety.",
      "Provides important vitamins and minerals, including magnesium and vitamin E."
    ],
    "side effects": [
      "Potential allergic reactions in sensitive individuals.",
      "Overconsumption may lead to weight gain due to high calorie content.",
      "Possible gastrointestinal discomfort if consumed in large quantities.",
      "May interact with certain medications, such as blood thinners."
    ]
 },
 "fa": {
    "description": "گردوها مغزهای غنی از مواد مغذی هستند که به خانواده مغزهای درختی تعلق دارند. آن‌ها به خاطر شکل خاص، طعم غنی و محتوای بالای اسیدهای چرب ضروری، به‌ویژه اسیدهای چرب امگا-3 شناخته شده‌اند. گردوها یک ماده غذایی چندمنظوره هستند که می‌توان آن‌ها را خام، بو داده یا در انواع غذاها مانند سالاد، محصولات نانوایی و به عنوان تزئین مصرف کرد. آن‌ها اغلب به خاطر مزایای سلامتی‌شان، که شامل بهبود سلامت قلب، عملکرد مغز و خواص ضد التهابی، تحسین می‌شوند.",
    "benefits": [
      "منبع غنی از اسیدهای چرب امگا-3 که سلامت قلب را ترویج می‌دهد.",
      "حمایت از عملکرد شناختی و سلامت مغز.",
      "دارای آنتی‌اکسیدان‌هایی که به مبارزه با استرس اکسیداتیو کمک می‌کنند.",
      "ممکن است به مدیریت وزن با ترویج سیری کمک کند.",
      "منبع مهم ویتامین‌ها و مواد معدنی، از جمله منیزیم و ویتامین E."
    ],
    "side effects": [
      "احتمال واکنش‌های آلرژیک در افراد حساس.",
      "مصرف بیش از حد ممکن است به افزایش وزن منجر شود به‌خاطر محتوای بالای کالری.",
      "ممکن است در صورت مصرف زیاد، ناراحتی گوارشی ایجاد کند.",
      "ممکن است با برخی داروها، مانند رقیق‌کننده‌های خون، تداخل داشته باشد."
    ]
 }
}